The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

August the Fifteenth, Two Thousand and Seven

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Emily Lipovan
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Containing

PAGE

City Council
3
The Calendar
77
Board of Control
77
Civil Service
79
Board of Zoning Appeals
79
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
80
Public Notice
81
Public Hearings
81
City of Cleveland Bids
81
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
82
Committee Meetings
130
Index
131

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
44128
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Emily Lipovan, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Tracy Y. Martin, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Julius Ciaccia, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Brian A. Reilly, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Angel Guzman, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley; Councilman Nina Turner.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue

POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

AUDIT COMMITTEE – Robert Rawson, Chairman; Yvette Ittu, Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis,
Don Neebes, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.

CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Laura M. Bala, Chair; Jennifer
Coleman, Vice Chair; Robert N. Brown, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Thomas
Coffey, Robert Jackimowicz; Ari Maron, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John
Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert Keiser, Secretary.

CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak –
Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2007

Vol. 94

No. 4888

CITY COUNCIL
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 8, 2007
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

EMILY LIPOVAN
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Britt, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley,
Reed, Santiago, Westbrook.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, White.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Keane, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Lewis, Pierce
Scott, Reed, White.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Britt,
Coats, Conwell, Pierce Scott, Westbrook, White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cimperman, Cummins, Coats,
Lewis, Westbrook. Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Coats, Conwell, Johnson, Turner.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Westbrook, Vice Chair; Brancatelli,
Britt, Cleveland, Keane, Turner.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Britt, Coats, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Turner.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Keane,
Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Keane,
Lewis, Reed, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Sweeney, Chair; Britt, Kelley,
Pierce Scott, Santiago, Westbrook,
White.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Wednesday, August 8, 2007
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Britt, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Lewis, Polensek,
Reed, Santiago, Sweeney, Turner, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Ken Silliman,
Chief of Staff; Darnell Brown, Chief
Operating Officer; Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Government Affairs;
and Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Ciaccia,
Smith,
Flask,
Cox,
Rush,
Hutchinson, Reilly, Griffin, Brown
and
Teresa
Stevenson,
Special
Assistant to the Mayor for Legislative Affairs.
A moment of silence was served,
follow by the Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Polensek, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting were dispensed with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member
Britt.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 1347-07.
From National City Bank — Account Statement — Leonard C. Hanna Jr. Fund - The Cleveland Mall
Plaza Beautification Fund. Received.

1423

File No. 1348-07.
From Mary Taylor, CPA, Auditor
of State — Report on Audits of
Financial Statements for the years
ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 —
various City Divisions. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1349-07.
Re: New Application — 93510014285
— Wal Mart Stores East LP, d.b.a.
Wal Mart Supercenter 4285, 3400
Steelyard Drive. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1350-07.
Re: New Application — 2815939 —
Forest & Associates, Inc., d.b.a.
Clifton Boulevard, E Z Shop, 11521
Clifton Boulevard. (Ward 18). Received.
File No. 1351-07.
Re: New Application — 6530213 —
Old
Timer’s
Club
of
Garfield
Heights, Inc., 4595 Turney Road.
(Ward 2). Received.
File No. 1352-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 4294025 — Joe & Son II,
Inc., d.b.a. QS Gas & Go, 4322 Clark
Avenue. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1353-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 8988551 — Topcat LLC,
d.b.a. Topcat’s Pub & Grill, 6702 St.
Clair Avenue. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1354-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 3956754 — Kevin Honaker,
d.b.a. Free Dome Bar & Grill, 3876
East 25th Street, first floor and
basement. (Ward 12). Received.
File No. 1355-07.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location — 1572238 — Club E., Inc.,
d.b.a. Club E, 4102-4104 Lee Road.
(Ward 1). Received.
File No. 1356-07.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
8112879 — Shreeji One, LLC, d.b.a.
Super One Market, 4501-03-05 Lee
Road. (Ward 1). Received.
OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 1357-07.
Martin J. Keane — Councilman,
Ward 21. Received.
File No. 1358-07.
Keith G. Sulzer — Commander
Second District Division of Police.
Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 1359-07.
Joellen C. O’Neill — Commander
Bureau of Human Resources Division of Police. Received.
File No. 1360-07.
Roland Muhammad — Member of
the Community Relations Board. Received.
File No. 1361-07.
Annie L. Key — Member of the
Community Relations Board. Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 1362-07.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Contract No. 64934 — Impett Park Site
Improvements. Received.
File No. 1363-07.
From the Department of Public
Utilities — Contract No. 65604 —
Cleaning and Lining 2006-Area B.
Received.
File No. 1364-07.
From the Department of Public
Utilities — Contract No. 65604 —
Cleaning and Lining 2006-Area A.
Received.
PLAT
File No. 1365-07.
A Residential Townhouse Development for Wadepark Townhouses
—
amending
Plat
No.
2110-06.
(Ward 9). Received.
Approved by Committees on Public Service and City Planning.
Without objections, plat approved.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1367-07—Vivian Cantrell.
Res. No. 1368-07 — Paul M. Wells,
Sr.
Res. No. 1369-07—Dr. Earnest Kelley, Sr.
Res. No. 1370-07 — Marjorie Witt
Johnson.
Res. No. 1371-07—James Anthony
Ayers Griffin.
Res. No. 1372-07—Charles E. Johnson.
Res. No. 1373-07—Gladys Cooper.
Res. No. 1374-07—Hattie Mae Lamberson.
Res. No. 1375-07—Bernard Douglas
Parker, Sr.
Res. No. 1376-07—Jean Robinson.
Res. No. 1377-07 — Marvin G. Mixson.
Res. No. 1378-07 — Deacon Jonas
Lewis Hunter, Sr.
Res. No. 1379-07—Leroy Gibson.
Res. No. 1380-07—Stevie Lee Stiggers.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1381-07 — United Parcel
Service – 100th Anniversary.

Res. No. 1382-07 — Carol Frances
Calabrese.
Res. No. 1383-07 — Sgt. Tammy T.
Tonne.
Res. No. 1384-07—Vera Curry.
Res. No. 1385-07 — Emmanu-El
A.M.E. Zion Church.
Res. No. 1386-07 — Rev. Ogden
(“Ogie”) White, III.
Res. No. 1387-07—Richard & Mary
Jane Yuhas.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1388-07—Lynn Swann.
Res. No. 1389-07 — 211th Birthday
of the City of Cleveland.
Res. No. 1390-07 — 24th Annual National Night Out Against Crime.
Res. No. 1391-07—Cleveland Food
Week/Fabulous Food Show.
Res. No. 1392-07—Michael I. Bess.
Res. No. 1393-07—Denoris Brown.
Res. No. 1394-07—Liberian Association of Cleveland.
Res. No. 1395-07 — West Tech
Alumni Association.
WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1396-07—Tom Joyner.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1234-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the Video Service Provider
Fees to be paid by a video service
provider offering video service in
the City of Cleveland pursuant to
state authorization; and authorizing
the Director of Public Utilities to
give notice to authorized video service providers of the Video Service
Provider Fees.
Whereas, the Ohio General Assembly enacted Sections 1332.21 through
1332.34 of the Revised Code, effective September 24, 2007, to provide a
statewide “uniform regulatory framework” for the provision of cable television and/or other video service,
which will substantially reduce the
City of Cleveland’s existing authority to regulate cable and/or video
service offered in the City using
facilities located in the City’s public
rights-of-way; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
entered into a cable television franchise agreement with Time Warner
and pursuant to which Time Warner
pays franchise fees in the amount of
five percent (5%) of gross revenues
which are defined by the franchise
to include advertising revenues; and
Whereas, under Section 1332.23 of
the Revised Code, any new video
service provider intending to provide video service to subscribers in
the City must apply for and obtain
a video service authorization from
the Director of the Ohio Department
of Commerce; and
Whereas, Section 1332.23 of the
Revised Code also permits a cable
operator with an effective franchise

1424

August 15, 2007
agreement to terminate its franchise
with the City, at its option, by applying for a state-issued video service authorization when a competitive video service provider either
gives notice that it will begin providing service to subscribers in the
City or actually begins providing
service to subscribers in the City, or
if the FCC determines that the cable
operator is subject to “effective competition” in the City pursuant to 47
CFR 76.907; and
Whereas, under Section 1332.32 of
the Revised Code, a video service
provider that is providing service to
subscribers in the City pursuant to
a state-issued video service authorization must pay the City Video
Service Provider Fees (“VSP Fees”)
based
on
a
percentage
of
the
provider’s “gross revenues” derived
from providing video service in the
City, not to exceed five percent
(5%) of such revenues; and
Whereas, Section 1332.32 of the
Revised Code requires that the percentage of gross revenues on which
VSP Fees is paid must be the same
as the percentage of gross revenues
that a cable operator pays pursuant
to a franchise agreement that is in
effect, or, if there is no effective
franchise agreement under which
franchise fees are payable for a
given calendar quarter, the VSP
Fees shall be zero percent (0%) of
gross revenues, unless the City
determines by Ordinance that the
VSP Fees will be a percentage of
gross revenues not to exceed five
percent (5%) of gross revenues; and
Whereas, division (C)(2) of Section 1332.32 of the Revised Code further requires the City to provide all
video service providers offering service in the City with notice of the
VSP Fees within ten (10) days of
receiving notice from the video service provider that it will begin offering service in the City, or the video
service provider is not required to
pay VSP Fees to the City; and
Whereas, division (B)(2)(g) of
Section 1332.32 of the Revised Code
provides that the VSP Fees are paid
on a base of gross revenues consisting of revenues received from
subscribers only, unless the City
specifically determines, by Ordinance uniformly applicable to all
video service providers, that advertising revenues also be included in
the base of gross revenues on which
the VSP Fees are paid; and
Whereas, division (B)(2)(g) of
Section 1332.32 of the Revised Code
requires the City to promptly notify
affected video service providers of
the Ordinance determining to include advertising revenues in the
base of gross revenues on which the
VSP Fees are paid, but provides that
the requirement to include advertising revenues in the base of gross
revenues does not take effect until
the first day of the first calendar
quarter that begins more than thirty (30) days after giving such
notice; and
Whereas, in order to minimize the
negative financial impact on the
City it is the intent of this Council
to charge the maximum VSP Fees
with the most expansive definition
of Gross Revenues allowed by law;
and

August 15, 2007
Whereas, in order to provide timely notice to a video service provider
of the VSP Fees, it is necessary for
this Council to determine now that
the percentage of gross revenues on
which the VSP Fees will be paid is
five percent (5%) and that advertising revenues shall be included in
the base of gross revenues on which
the VSP Fees are paid, and to authorize the Director of Public Utilities
to provide notice of the VSP Fees to
a video service provider within ten
(10) days of the City receiving
notice that a video service provider
will begin providing service in the
City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
safety and welfare in order to
ensure that the City continues to
receive appropriate fees from persons providing video and/or cable
service in the City using the City’s
rights-of-way and for the usual daily
operation of a municipal department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with the requirements of Section
1332.32 of the Revised Code, all
video service providers providing
video service in the City pursuant to
a
video
service
authorization
obtained from the Director of the
Ohio Department of Commerce shall
pay Video Service Provider Fees
(“VSP Fees”) in the amount of five
percent (5%) of gross revenues
received from providing video service in the City, which gross revenue base shall include advertising
revenues. The VSP Fee shall be paid
quarterly, not sooner than forty-five
(45) days nor later than sixty (60)
days after the end of each calendar
quarter.
Section 2. That, no later than ten
(10) days from receipt of notice
from a video service provider that
it will begin providing video service in the City pursuant to a stateissued video service authorization,
the Director of Public Utilities is
authorized and directed to provide
such video service provider with
notice of the VSP Fees as determined by this Council under Section
1 of this ordinance, which notice
shall be given by regular and certified mail.
Section 3. That it is found and
determined that all formal actions
of the Council concerning and relating to the adoption of this Ordinance were adopted in an open
meeting of this Council, and that all
deliberations of the Council and any
of its committees that resulted in
such formal action were in meetings
open to the public in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law

The City Record
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1235-07.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
upgrades and improvements at the
Baldwin Water Works – Kirtland
Pump Station; and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing upgrades and improvements at the Baldwin Water Works
– Kirtland Pump Station, including
but not limited to, upgrading the
raw water pumping system, replacing the potassium permanganate
system, and constructing a new
maintenance shop, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly
let to the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
for a gross price for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of the improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of
a separate contract for a gross
price. On request of the director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of the improvement.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001, 52
SF 229, 52 SF 231, and from the fund
or funds which are credited the proceeds of the sale of future waterworks revenue bonds issued for this
purpose. Request No. 162514.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.

1425

5
Ord. No. 1236-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more requirement contracts without competitive
bidding with Motorola for equipment
and supplies to operate the radio
system and its subscriber units, including equipment, installation and
maintenance, for the Department of
Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Motorola. Therefore, the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts with Motorola under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for a period not to
exceed two years of the necessary
items of equipment and supplies to
operate the radio system and its
subscriber units, including equipment, installation and maintenance,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a
unit basis, for the Department of
Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 169204)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1237-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of one customized production truck for TV-23, for the Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,

6
for each or all of the following
items: one (1) customized production
truck for TV-23, including but not
limited to, a digitally wired customized box that would house the
engineering,
switching,
graphics,
and audio stations for taping productions off-site, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies for a gross price, for the
Department of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance
may be made through cooperative
agreements using state procedures.
The Director Public Utilities of may
sign all documents with the State
of Ohio or any of its political subdivisions that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into contract or contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 50 SF 001,
Request No. 156368.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1238-07.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Surface Systems, Inc. to upgrade the
existing surface sensor system, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Surface Systems, Inc. Therefore the
Director of Port Control is authorized to make one or more written
contracts with Surface Systems, Inc.
on the basis of its proposal dated
April 3, 2006, in an amount not to
exceed $50,000, to upgrade the existing surface sensor system, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 60 SF
001, Request No. 158698.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

The City Record
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1239-07.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide professional
services necessary to provide drawings of the existing and proposed
Airfield
signage,
lighting,
and
marking plans, as required for certification
of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International Airport by the Federal Aviation Administration, and to
update drawings as required, for a
period of two years with two oneyear options to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to
provide professional services necessary to provide drawings of the
existing and proposed Airfield signage, lighting, and marking plans,
as required for certification of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport by the Federal Aviation
Administration, and to update drawings as required, for a period of two
years with two one-year options to
renew exercisable by the Director
of Port Control.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001,
Request No. 168405.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.

1426

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1240-07.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a license agreement with
the Sensis Corporation granting access to portions of Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport
and
Burke Lakefront Airport for the purpose of installing, operating, maintaining, repairing, and replacing
equipment to conduct research relating to the Next Generation Air Traffic System, for a period of eighteen
months, with one option to renew
for an additional one-year term.
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 183.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Director of Port Control entered into
a Use Agreement with Sensis Corporation granting access to portions
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport to conduct research relating to
the Next Generation Air Traffic System (“NGATS”); and
Whereas,
Section
183.16
limits
agreements entered into under that
section to a period of one year or
until
the
project
is
completed,
whichever occurs first; and
Whereas, the research that Sensis
Corporation is conducting has not
been completed and additional time
is necessary; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
Section 183.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a license agreement with Sensis Corporation granting access to portions of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and
Burke Lakefront Airport for the purpose of installing, operating, maintaining, repairing, and replacing
equipment to conduct research relating to NGATS.
Section 2. That the term of the
license agreement shall be for a
period of eighteen months, with one
option to renew for an additional
one-year term, exercisable by the
Director of Port Control.
Section 3. That the license agreement shall be at no cost to either
party and may include reasonable
right of entry rights to the City.
Section 4. That the license agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Port Control and the Director of law,
and other appropriate City officials,
are authorized to execute other documents and certificates, and take other
actions as may be necessary or appropriate to effect the license agreement
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1241-07.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more amendments
to Contract No. 66178 with Era Systems Corporation to conduct additional noise monitoring system software upgrades and maintenance.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1069-06, passed August 9, 2006, this
Council entered into Contract No.
66178 with BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration, Inc. (“BAE Systems”) for
noise monitoring system software
upgrades and maintenance; and
Whereas, by letter dated May 15,
2007, BAE Systems requested the
City’s consent to assign all of BAE
Systems’ interests and certain obligations under Contract No. 66178 to
Era Systems Corporation; and
Whereas, the Board of Control
consented to the assignment of Contract No. 66178 to Era Systems Corporation under Board of Control
Resolution No. 335-00, approved June
25, 2007; and
Whereas, additional upgrades and
maintenance are necessary; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into
one or more amendments to Contract
No. 66178 with Era Systems Corporation to conduct additional noise
monitoring
system
software
upgrades and maintenance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract amendments shall not exceed
$132,964.00 and shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60
SF 105, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 140, 60 SF
141, Request No. 150594.
Section
3.
That
the
contract
amendments authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1242-07.
By Council Members Brady, Zone,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 510.01 to 510.08 and
510.99 relating to the use of public
right-of-way by service providers
and new Section 503.013 relating to
public street pavement preservation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 510.01 to 510.08 and 510.99 to
read as follows:
CHAPTER 510
USE OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
BY SERVICE PROVIDERS

Section 510.01 Scope of Chapter;
Definitions
(a) The purpose and intent of this
Chapter is to:
(1) Manage Occupancy or Use of
the Public Right-of-Way by Service
Providers on a competitively neutral
basis;
(2) Conserve the limited physical
capacity of the Public Right-of-Way
held in trust by the City for the benefit of the public;
(3) Administer the impact of access to the Public Right-of-Way by
Service Providers to promote efficiency, discourage uneconomic duplication of Facilities, and lesson the
public inconvenience arising out of
uncoordinated work in the Public
Right-of-Way;
(4) Promote cooperation among
Service Providers and the City in
the use and occupation of the Public Right-of-Way, to minimize public
inconvenience during work in the
Public Right-of-Way, and to eliminate
wasteful,
unnecessary
or
unsightly duplication of facilities;
(5) Assure that the City fairly and
responsibly
protects
the
public
health, safety and welfare;
(6) Abate the public nuisance
specifically determined to exist by
the Council and created by the
unregulated placement of Above
Ground Facilities and Above Ground
Facilities Clusters in the Public
Right-of-Way that interfere with the
safe and unobstructed use of the
Public
Right-of-Way
by
traffic,
pedestrians and adjoining and abutting property owners;
(7) Enable the City to discharge its
public trust consistent with rapidly
evolving federal and State regulatory policies, industry competition and
technological development; and
(8) Manage, regulate and administer the Public Right-of-Way in the
City with regard to matters of local
concern in the exercise of the City’s
powers
of
local
self-government
granted by Section 3 of Article
XVIII of the Ohio Constitution.
(b) For the purpose, interpretation
and enforcement of this Chapter, the
following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings, unless
the context of the sentence in which
they are used shall indicate otherwise:
(1) “Above Ground Facilities” or
“AGF” means that portion of a System located on the surface of the
Public Right-of-Way outside of the
Public Street.
(2) “Above Ground Facilities Cluster” or “AGF Cluster” means a
grouping of more than one structure
constituting Above Ground Facilities of a Service Provider on a
shared concrete pad.
(3)
“Above
Ground
Facilities
Installation Permit” or “AGF Instal-

1427

7
lation
Permit”
means
a
permit
issued under Section 510.06 of this
Chapter.
(4) “Affiliate” means a Person
that (directly or indirectly) owns or
controls, is owned or controlled by,
or is under common ownership or
control with another Person.
(5) “Cable Service” means “cable
service” as defined in the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984,
codified at 47 U.S.C. §532, et seq., as
amended by the Cable Television
Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, as each
might be further amended.
(6) “Capital Improvement” means
an addition made to enhance the
value or extend the useful life of an
existing System or Facilities, including Construction, Reconstruction, installation, rehabilitation, renovation,
improvement, enlargement and extension of Facilities, but not including ordinary maintenance.
(7) “City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
(8) “City Block” means the portion
of the Public Right-of-Way between
two adjacent intersections of two
sets of intersecting streets.
(9) “City Property” means and
includes all real property owned by
the City, other than Public Streets
and Public Easements as those
terms are defined in this section,
and all property held in a proprietary capacity by the City.
(10) “Construct,” “Constructing” or
“Construction” means installing, repairing, replacing or removing any
Facility, regardless of the methods
employed.
(11) “Director” means the Director
of Public Service or the Director’s
designee.
(12) “Excavate,” “Excavating” or
“Excavation” means cutting, sawing,
breaking, drilling into, boring under,
or otherwise altering any Public
Street or sidewalk pavement, and/or
digging, drilling into or boring under
any unpaved portion of the Public
Right-of-Way, including any other
work or activity which disturbs the
existing surface or subsurface structure, composition, or soil compaction,
for the purpose of carrying on any
Construction activity.
(13) “Excess Capacity” means the
volume or capacity in any existing
or future duct, conduit, manhole, or
other Facility in the Public Rightof-Way that is or will be available
for use for additional Facilities.
(14)
“Facilities”
or
“Facility”
means the plant, equipment and
property, including but not limited
to, cables, fibers, wires, pipes, conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennae,
electronics,
poles,
pipes,
mains,
plant, equipment and other appurtenances located under, on or above
the surface of the ground in the
Public Right-of-Way of the City and
used or to be used to operate a System to transmit, receive, distribute,
provide or offer a Service.
(15)
“Franchise
Ordinance
or
Agreement” means an ordinance or
agreement granted by the Council
under Sections 181 through 188 of
the City’s Charter.
(16)
“Occupancy,”
“Occupy”
or
“Use” means, with respect to the
Public Right-of-Way, to place a tangible thing in the Public Right-of-

8
Way for any purpose, including, but
not limited to, Constructing, repairing,
positioning,
maintaining
or
operating lines, poles, pipes, conduits, ducts, equipment or other
structures, appurtenances or Facilities necessary to operate a System
for the delivery of Services.
(17) “Other Ways” means the
highways, streets, alleys, Utility
Easements or other rights-of-way
within the City, but under the jurisdiction and control of a governmental entity other than the City.
(18) “Overhead Facilities” means
utility poles and wires, cables and
other equipment running between
and on the poles, including the
underground supports and foundations for the Facilities.
(19) “Person” means and includes
corporations,
companies,
associations, joint stock companies or associations, firms, partnerships, limited
liability companies, trusts and individuals and includes their lessors,
trustees and receivers.
(20) “Private Service Provider”
means any Person who directly or
indirectly owns, controls, operates
or manages Facilities within the
Public Right-of-Way used or to be
used for the purpose of operating a
System to transmit, receive, distribute or provide Services between or
among private buildings or facilities
where there is no offer of Service to
the public.
(21) “Public Easement” means any
easement under the jurisdiction and
control of the City and acquired,
established, dedicated or devoted for
public purposes, including utility
purposes.
(22) “Public Property” means any
real and personal property owned or
controlled by the City, other than
the Public Right-of-Way.
(23) “Public Right-of-Way” means
the surface of, and the space within,
through, on, across, above or below,
the paved or unpaved portion of any
Public Street, public road, public
highway, public freeway, public lane,
public path, public alley, public
court, public sidewalk, public boulevard, public parkway, public drive,
Public Easement and any other land
dedicated or otherwise designated
for a compatible public use, which is
controlled by the City but excludes
Public Property.
(24)
“Public
Service
Provider”
means any Person that directly or
indirectly owns, controls, operates
or manages Facilities within the
City’s Public Right-of-Way, used or
to be used for the purpose of operating a System offering Service to
the public within the City or outside
of the City’s boundaries.
(25) “Public Street” means the
paved portion of any street, road,
boulevard, drives, highway, freeway,
parkway, lane court, alley or other
Public Right-of-Way in which the
City has an interest in law or equity and which has been acquired,
established, dedicated or devoted to
street
purposes,
excluding
tree
lawns, amenity areas, and sidewalks.
(26) “PUCO” or “Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio” means the
State Administrative agency, or lawful successor, authorized to regulate
and oversee certain Public or Private Service Providers and Services
in the State.

The City Record
(27) “Reconstruct” or “Reconstruction” means substantial physical
change to or Capital Improvement
of all or a portion of an existing
System or Facilities including a
change in location, or additional
locations, of Facilities along the
same Right-of-Way involving Construction in Public Streets, Utility
Easements, or Public Right-of-Way.
(28) “Service” means the offering
of water, sewer, electric, gas, telephone, telecommunications, cable television, Video Service, information or
other utility-like service for a fee
directly to the public, or to the classes of users as to be effectively available to the public, regardless of the
Facilities used.
(29) “Service Provider” means any
Public Service Provider and/or Private Service Provider.
(30) “State” means the State of
Ohio.
(31) “Surplus Overhead Space”
means that portion of the Usable
Overhead Space on a utility pole
which has the necessary clearance
from the Facilities of existing Service Providers using the pole, as
required by the orders and regulations of PUCO and other applicable
State and local orders and regulations, to allow its use by a Service
Provider for a pole attachment.
(32) “Surplus Underground Space”
means that portion of the Usable
Underground Space which has the
necessary clearance from the Underground Facilities of existing Service
Providers as determined by the
Director to allow its use for additional Underground Facilities by a
Service Provider.
(33) “System” means a network of
Facilities
for
the
transmission
and/or distribution of a Service.
(34)
“Underground
Facilities”
means that portion of a System
located under the surface of the
ground, excluding the underground
foundations or supports for Overhead Facilities.
(35)
“Usable
Overhead
Space”
means the total distance between
the top of a utility pole and the lowest possible attachment point that
provides the minimum allowable
vertical clearance as specified in the
orders and regulations of the PUCO.
(36) “Usable Underground Space”
means the space below the surface
of the Public Right-of-Way that is
needed for the installation and maintenance of Underground Facilities by
a Service Provider without interfering with Occupancy of existing
Underground Facilities by Service
Providers in the Public Right-of-Way
as determined by the Director.
(37) “Utility Easement” means any
easement
owned
by
a
Service
Provider and acquired, established,
dedicated or devoted for the purpose
of providing Service to the public.
(38) “Video Service” means the
provision
of
video
programming
using equipment located at least in
part in the Public Right-of-Way,
regardless of the technology used to
deliver that programming.
Section 510.02 Registration of Service Providers that Occupy or Use
the Public Right-of-Way for Facilities
(a) Registration Required to Occupy Public Right-of-Way. No Ser-

1428

August 15, 2007
vice Provider shall Occupy or Use
the Public Right-of-Way without
registering with the City prior to
commencing to do so.
(b) Initial Registration Presumed.
(1) A Service Provider with existing Facilities in the Public Right-ofWay on the effective date of this
Chapter, and who either:
A. is subject to jurisdiction by the
PUCO;
B. has a valid Franchise Ordinance or Agreement with the City
to provide Cable Services or other
Services in the City, and/or
C. is any other Service Provider
whose existing Facilities lawfully
Occupy the Public Right-of-Way on
the effective date of this Chapter
shall be presumed to have initial
registration with the City for its
existing Facilities to Occupy or Use
the Public Right-of-Way.
(2) Initial presumed registration
for Occupancy or Use of the Public
Right-of-Way is limited to the Service or Private Service Provider’s
existing facilities.
(3) A Service Provider with initial
presumed
registration
is
not
relieved from compliance with this
Chapter with respect to the ongoing
Occupancy or Use of the Public
Right-of-Way including, but not limited to, the Insurance, Indemnity,
Performance Bond and Registration
requirements under divisions (e),
(f) and (g) of Section 510.02 and
division (d) of Section 510.03.
(4) Any Service Provider with presumed initial registration to Occupy
or Use the Public Right-of-Way for
existing Facilities shall comply with
the
Initial
Registration
requirements under division (c)(2) of
Section 510.02 and division (a) of
Section 510.03 within ninety (90)
days of the effective date of this
Chapter.
(c) Registration to Occupy or Use
Public Right-of-Way.
(1) The following Service Providers shall register with the City
to Occupy or Use the Public Rightof-Way on a form provided by the
Director; any Service Provider who:
A. Does not currently have an
existing System or Facilities in the
City’s Public Right-of-Way and desires to Construct a System, Facilities or Private Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way;
B. Has an existing System, Facilities or Private Facilities in the
Public Right-of-Way on the effective
date of this Chapter and does not
have presumed initial registration
under division (b)(1) of Section
510.02; or
C. Has initial presumed registration or is registered to Occupy or
Use the Public Right-of-Way for an
existing System, Facilities or Private Facilities, but is planning
1. a Capital Improvement or Reconstruction of existing Facilities;
or
2. to Construct an additional System anywhere in the City.
(2) The form for Service Providers
to register to Occupy or Use the
Public Right-of-Way under this section and/or under division (a) of
Section 510.03 shall include the following information with respect to
the Service Provider’s planned or
existing System and/or Facilities in
the Public Right-of-Way as well as

August 15, 2007
plans
for
any
planned
Capital
Improvements or Reconstruction for
the following twelve (12) months:
A. The identity, legal status and
federal tax identification number of
the Service Provider, including all
Affiliates of the Service Provider
that will Use or Occupy the Public
Right-of-Way or are in any way
responsible for Services provided
over the System in the Public Rightof-Way.
B. The name, address, telephone
number and e-mail address of the
local officer, agent or employee
responsible for the accuracy of the
registration and available at all reasonable times to be notified in case
of emergency.
C. A general description of the Services provided or to be provided by
the Service Provider over its System
or Facilities. Where Services are or
will be provided by a nonaffiliated
provider, the Service Provider shall
identify that provider.
D. A description of the type of
transmission medium used, or to be
used, by the Service Provider to
operate a System.
E. A description of the existing or
proposed Facilities in the City’s
Public Right-of-Way, all in sufficient detail to identify:
1. the location and route of the
Service Provider’s Facilities or proposed Facilities;
2. the location of all known existing Overhead and/or Underground
Facilities in the Public Right-ofWay along the route or proposed
route of the Service Provider’s Facilities or proposed Facilities that is
sufficient to show the impact of the
Service
Provider’s
Facilities
on
other existing Facilities; and
3. the location of all known overhead and underground Utility Easements.
F.
A
preliminary
Construction
schedule and completion date for all
Capital Improvements planned for
the twelve (12) month period following the date of application.
G. If the Service Provider is providing Services in the City:
1. A description of the access and
line extension policies or a copy of
their PUCO tariff; and
2. The area or areas of the City
in which the Service Provider is currently
providing
Service
and
a
schedule for build-out of the entire
area, if applicable.
H. Evidence that the Service
Provider has complied, or will comply, with indemnification, Insurance,
Performance Bond and Construction
Bond requirements of this Chapter.
I. Information sufficient to determine that the Service Provider has
received any certificate of authority
required by the PUCO or the State
to operate a System and provide Services in the City.
J. Other and further information
as may reasonably be requested by
the Director.
(3) The City shall confirm, in
writing, a Service Provider’s completed registration to Occupy or Use
the Public Right-of-Way within thirty (30) days of the date on which
the registration form is filed with
the City.
A. The City may withhold or delay
confirmation of a Service Provider’s
completed registration to Occupy or

The City Record
Use the Public Right-of-Way based
on the Service Provider’s failure to
possess the financial, technical and
managerial resources necessary to
protect the public health, safety and
welfare, or for other reasons based
on the health, safety and welfare of
the City and under Ohio law.
B. If the City withholds or delays
a Service Provider’s registration to
Occupy or Use the Public Right-ofWay, the City shall provide its reasons in writing for withholding or
delaying registration, and shall provide any information that the Service Provider may reasonably request necessary for the Service
Provider to obtain a completed registration to Occupy or Use the Public Right-of-Way.
(4) The City’s registration of a
Service Provider to Occupy or Use
the Public Right-of-Way shall be in
the form of a Right-of-Way Occupancy Certificate which shall specify the specific terms of the City’s
registration for the Service Provider
to Occupy or Use the Public Rightof-Way.
(5) Each Service Provider registering to Occupy or Use the Public
Right-of-Way shall pay a fee as
determined by the Director to reimburse the City for its administrative
costs related to the registration
process
as
provided
in
Section
510.08.
(d) Registration of Service Providers with an Existing Franchise
Ordinance or Agreement. For purposes of this Chapter, a Franchise
Ordinance or Agreement shall be
deemed registration of the Franchisee’s Occupancy or Use of the
Public Right-of-Way to the extent
described in the Franchise Ordinance or Agreement. The Franchisee’s use of the Public Right-ofWay beyond that described in the
Franchise Ordinance or Agreement
shall require additional registration
for the additional Occupancy or Use.
Franchisees shall comply with the
Registration provisions and Public
Right-of-Way Use Regulations to the
extent that the provisions of this
Chapter do not directly conflict with
the Franchise Ordinance or Agreement. If there is a direct conflict
between the Franchise Ordinance or
Agreement and the provisions of
this Chapter, the Franchise Ordinance or Agreement shall control.
(e) Service Provider Insurance.
All
registered
Service
Providers
must secure and maintain, at a minimum, the following liability insurance policies insuring both the Service Provider and the City, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents, employees and representatives as additional insureds:
(1) Comprehensive general liability insurance with limits not less than
A. Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000)
for bodily injury or death to each
Person;
B. Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000)
for property damage resulting from
any one accident; and
C. Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000)
for all other types of liability.
(2) Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a limit of Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000) for each Person and
Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000) for
each accident.

1429

9
(3) Worker’s compensation within
statutory limits and employer’s liability insurance with limits of not
less
than
One
Million
Dollars
($1,000,000).
(4) Comprehensive form premisesoperations, explosions and collapse
hazard, underground hazard and
products completed hazard with limits of not less than Three Million
Dollars ($3,000,000).
(5) The liability insurance policies required by this section shall be
maintained by the Service Provider
throughout the period of time during which the Service Provider is
Occupying or Using the Public
Right-of-Way, or is engaged in the
removal of its Facilities. Each insurance policy shall contain the following endorsement:
“It
is
hereby
understood
and
agreed that this policy may not be
canceled nor the intention not to
renew be stated until ninety (90)
days after receipt by the City, by
registered mail, of a written notice
addressed to the Director of such
intent to cancel or not to renew.”
(6) Within sixty (60) days after
receipt by the City of the notice, and
in no event later than thirty (30)
days prior to the cancellation, the
Service Provider shall obtain and
furnish to the City replacement
insurance
policies
meeting
the
requirements of this section.
(7) Upon written application to,
and written approval by, the Director, a Service Provider with net capitalization of Ten Million Dollars
($10,000,000.00) or more may be selfinsured; except that all coverages
for Workers’ Compensation shall be
in compliance with State law. No
approval for self-insurance shall be
given until the Director has made a
complete review of the Service
Provider’s financial ability to provide the self-insurance. As part of
the review process, the Director may
require, and the self-insurance applicant shall provide, any and all
financial documents necessary to
make a valid determination of the
applicant’s ability to meet the needs
of this Chapter.
(f) General Indemnification. Each
form for registering to Occupy or Use
the Public Right-of-Way, and each
annual registration, shall include, to
the extent permitted by law, the Service Provider’s express undertaking
to defend, indemnify and hold the
City and its elected and appointed
officers, officials, employees, agents,
representatives and subcontractors
harmless from and against any and
all damages, losses and expenses,
including reasonable attorney’s fees
and costs of suit or defense, arising
out of, resulting from or alleged to
arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of
the Service Provider or its Affiliates,
officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the Construction,
Reconstruction,
installation, operation, maintenance, repair
or removal of its System or Facilities,
and in providing or offering Services
over
the
Facilities
or
System,
whether the acts or omissions are
authorized, allowed or prohibited by
this Chapter.
(g) Performance Bond or Security
Fund. To ensure the full and com-

10
plete compliance with the codes,
ordinances, rules, or regulations of
the City, each Service Provider
shall, in the amount of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000)
or such lesser amount as the Director may determine to be necessary
(i) establish a permanent security
fund with the City by depositing the
required amount in cash, an unconditional letter of credit, or other
instrument acceptable to the City, or
(ii) furnish and file with the City a
Performance Bond running to the
City in the required amount from a
company licensed to do business in
the State; which performance bond
or security fund shall be maintained
at the sole expense of the Service
Provider so long as any of the Service Provider’s Facilities are located within the Public Right-of-Way
of the City.
(1)
Before
claims
are
made
against the Performance Bond or
any sums are withdrawn from the
security fund, the City shall give
written notice to the Service Provider:
A. describing the act, default or
failure to be remedied, or the damages, cost or expenses which the
City has incurred by reason of the
Service Provider’s act or default;
B. providing a reasonable opportunity for the Service Provider to
first remedy the existing or ongoing
default or failure, if applicable;
C. providing a reasonable opportunity for the Service Provider to
pay any monies due the City before
the City makes a claim against the
Performance Bond or withdraws the
amount from the security fund, if
applicable; and
D. stating that the Service Provider will be given an opportunity
to review the act, default or failure
described in the notice with the
Director.
(2) Service Providers shall maintain the full value of the Performance Bond regardless of claims
against the Performance Bond made
by, or paid to, the City; or shall
replenish the security fund within
fourteen (14) days after written
notice from the City that there is a
deficiency in the amount of the
fund, whichever is applicable.
Section 510.03
Initial and Annual
Registration of Existing Service
Providers
(a) Initial Registration. Any Service Provider with initial presumed
registration to Occupy or Use the
Public Rights-of-Way as provided in
division (b) of Section 510.02 shall
file an initial registration with the
City within ninety (90) days of the
effective date of this Chapter, on a
form
provided
by
the
Director,
which shall include the information
in division (c)(2) of Section 510.02.
(b) Annual Registration Required.
All Service Providers registered to
Occupy or Use the Public Right-ofWay shall register with the City
each calendar year between January
1 and January 31 on a form provided by the Director. Service Providers
who file an Initial Registration
before January 1, 2008 need not file
an Annual Registration for calendar
year 2008.
(c) Purpose of Registration. The
purpose of the annual registration

The City Record
under division (b) of this section is
to:
(1) Compile, update and supplement the City’s database so that the
City has accurate and current information concerning the Service Providers that own or operate Facilities, and/or provide Services, in the
Public Right-of-Way;
(2) Assist the City in monitoring
the usage of the Public Right-ofWay in order to ensure that the public receives the maximum possible
benefit from that use and the use is
consistent with the best management and care of the Public Rightof-Way;
(3) Assist the City in the collection and enforcement of any municipal taxes, franchise fees, compliance fees or charges that may be
due the City; and
(4) Assist the City in monitoring
compliance with local, State and federal laws.
(d)
Information
Required
for
Annual Registration. Annual registration forms will be provided by
the City and shall require the following information:
(1) Any material changes to the
information the Service Provider
provided the City in prior registrations to Occupy or Use the Public
Right-of-Way, including, but not limited to:
A. The identity, legal status, and
federal tax identification number of
the Service Provider, including any
Affiliates; and
B. The name, address, telephone
number and e-mail address of the
local officer, agent or employee
responsible for the accuracy of the
Service Provider’s registration statement and available at all reasonable
times to be notified in case of emergency.
(2) Evidence that the Service
Provider is in compliance with the
Insurance, Indemnity and Performance Bond requirements under
divisions (e), (f) and (g) of Section
510.02.
(3) Information regarding, and a
preliminary Construction schedule
and completion date for, any Capital Improvements the Service Provider plans in the Public Right-ofWay for the twelve (12) months following the date of registration,
including:
A. A description clearly showing
the location of all the proposed Capital Improvements, including horizontal
and
vertical
information;
Facility type, size, depth, and capacity; or other information the Director determines is necessary. In no
event shall the description of the
proposed Capital Improvement be
less than by City quadrant and/or
street name and Facility type. The
Service Provider shall update all
required information as soon as it
becomes available.
B. If the Service Provider is Constructing a new System or Reconstructing all or a portion of its
existing System, general description
of the proposed System and the
Facilities utilized to provide the Service
that
the
Service
Provider
intends to offer or provide over the
System within the City. Where a
Service will be provided by a nonaffiliated
provider,
the
Service
Provider shall identify that provider.

1430

August 15, 2007
C. Information sufficient to determine that the Service Provider has
applied for and received any certificate of authority required by
PUCO or the State to provide Services or operate a System in the
City.
(D) Information sufficient to determine that the Service Provider
has applied for and received any
construction permit, operating license,
certification, or other approvals required by the Federal Communications Commission or the State to provide telecommunications, Cable Services or Video Services over a System in the City.
(4) Such other information as the
Director may reasonably require.
(e) Facilities Maps. The City shall
have the right to access and review
all the Service Provider’s maps
and/or as-built plans showing the
location of its Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way, on ten (10) days
notice to the Service Provider.
(f) Registration to be Kept Current. In addition to the annual registration requirement, each Service
Provider shall keep all required registration information current at all
times and shall provide the City
with notice of changes to the
required information within fifteen
(15) days following the date on
which the Service Provider has
notice of the change.
(g) Registration Fee. Each Service Provider, except as provided in
Section 510.09, shall pay an annual
registration fee as determined by
the Director to reimburse the City
for its administrative costs related
to maintaining annual registration
and as provided in Section 510.08.
Section 510.04
General Public
Right-of-Way Use Regulations
(a) Public Right-of-Way Route. A
completed registration of a Service
Provider to Occupy or Use the Public
Right-of-Way
under
Sections
510.02 and Section 510.03 shall apply
to only the specific Public Right-ofWay
and
the
defined
portions
including the specific Facilities and
location along the Public Right-ofWay that were identified by the Service Provider in the registration
form.
(b) Nonexclusive Right to Occupy
the Public Right-of-Way. Registration of a Service Provider granted
under Sections 510.02 and 510.03
shall not confer any exclusive right,
privilege, license or franchise to
Occupy or Use the Public Right-ofWay of the City to operate a System for delivery of Services or any
other purposes.
(c) Rights Permitted. Registration
of a Service Provider under Sections
510.02 and 510.03 shall not convey
any right, title or interest in the
Public Right-of-Way.
(d)
Maintenance of Facilities.
Each Service Provider shall maintain its System or Facilities in good
and safe condition and in a manner
that complies with all applicable
federal, State and local requirements.
(e) Safety Procedures. A Service
Provider or other Person acting on
its behalf shall use suitable barricades, flags, flagmen, lights, flares
and other measures as necessary
and under applicable State and local

August 15, 2007
requirements for the safety of all
members of the general public and
to prevent injury or damage to any
Person, vehicle or property by reason of the work in or affecting such
Public Right-of-Way or property.
(f) Interference with the Public
Rights-of-Way. No Service Provider
may locate or maintain its Facilities
so as to unreasonably interfere with
the use of the Public Right-of-Way
by the City, by the general public
or by other Persons authorized to
use or be present in or on the Public Right-of-Way. All Facilities shall
be moved by the Service Provider,
temporarily
or
permanently,
as
determined by the Director.
(g) Damage to Public and Private
Property. No Service Provider nor
any Person acting on the Service
Provider’s behalf shall take any
action or permit any action to be
done which may impair or damage
any City Property, Public Right-ofWay, Other Ways or other public or
private property located in, on or
adjacent thereto.
(h) Restoration of Public Right-ofWay, Other Ways and City Property.
(1) When a Service Provider, or
any Person acting on its behalf,
does any work in or affecting any
Public Right-of-Way, Other Ways or
City Property, it shall, after the
work is completed and at its own
expense, promptly remove any obstructions and restore such ways or
property, within ten (10) to thirty
(30) days, at the Director’s discretion, to as good a condition as existed before the work was undertaken,
unless otherwise directed by the
City.
(2) If weather or other conditions
do not permit the complete restoration required by this Section, the
Service Provider shall temporarily
restore the affected ways or property as directed by the Director. Such
temporary restoration shall be at
the Service Provider’s sole expense
and
the
Service
Provider
shall
promptly undertake and complete
the required permanent restoration
when the weather or other conditions no longer prevent permanent
restoration.
(i) Duty to Provide Information.
(1) Within ten (10) days of a written request from the Director each
Service Provider shall furnish the
City with documentation sufficient
to show that the Service Provider
has complied with all requirements
of this Chapter.
(2) In addition, within ten (10)
days of a written request from the
Director, each Service Provider shall
make available for inspection by the
City at reasonable times all books,
records, maps and other documents,
maintained by the Service Provider
with respect to its Facilities in the
Public Right-of-Way.
(j) Leased Capacity. A Service
Provider shall have the right, without prior City approval, to lease
capacity or bandwidth to an unaffiliated Service Provider, provided:
(1) The Service Provider shall
notify the City of the lease agreement within thirty (30) days of the
lease agreement; and
(2) The lessee has complied, to
the extent applicable, with the requirements of this Chapter.

The City Record
(k) Assignments or Transfers.
Registration to Occupy or Use the
Public Right-of-Way may be, directly or indirectly, transferred, assigned or disposed of by sale, lease,
merger, consolidation or other act of
the Service Provider, by operation of
law or otherwise, without consent of
the City, so long as:
(1) The City is notified of the proposed transfer on or before the date
of transfer; and
(2) The transferee shall fully comply with this Chapter within sixty
(60) days of the transfer, including,
but not limited to:
A. All information required by the
Registration to Occupy or Use the
Public Right-of-Way under Sections
510.02 and Section 510.03; and
B. Any other information reasonably required by the Director.
(l) Transactions Affecting Assignments or Transfers. Any transactions that singularly or collectively
result in a change of twenty-five
percent (25%) or more of the ownership or ultimate working control
of a Service Provider, of the ownership or working control of the Service Provider’s Facility, or of control of the capacity or bandwidth of
the Service Provider’s System, Facilities or substantial parts of the
Facility shall be considered an
assignment or transfer under division (k) of this section. Transactions between Affiliated entities are
not exempt from division (k) of this
section.
(m) Revocation of Registration. A
Service Provider’s registration to
Occupy or Use the Public Right-ofWay of the City may be revoked for
any one of the following reasons:
(1) Construction, Reconstruction,
installation, location, operation or
Excavation at an unauthorized location.
(2) Construction, Reconstruction,
installation, location, operation or
Excavation in violation of City safety and/or Construction requirements.
(3) Material misrepresentation or
lack of candor by or on behalf of a
Service Provider in any permit
application or registration required
by the City.
(4) Failure to relocate or remove
Facilities, or failure to restore the
Public Right-of-Way, as required by
this Chapter.
(5) Failure to pay fees, costs,
taxes or compensation when and as
due the City.
(6) Insolvency or bankruptcy of
the Service Provider.
(7) Violation of material provisions of this Chapter.
(n) Notice and Duty to Cure. In
the event that the Director believes
that grounds exist for revocation of
a Service Provider’s registration to
Occupy or Use the Public Right-ofWay, the Director shall give the Service Provider written notice of the
apparent violation or noncompliance, providing a short and concise
statement of the nature and general facts of the violation or noncompliance, and providing the Service
Provider a reasonable period of time
not exceeding thirty (30) days to
furnish evidence:
(1) That corrective action has
been, or is being actively and expeditiously pursued, to remedy the violation or noncompliance;

1431

11
(2) That rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance; and/or
(3) That it would be in the public interest to impose some penalty
or sanction less than revocation.
(o) It is within the Director’s reasonable discretion to waive a portion or portions of this Chapter
where the requirements, in the
Director’s judgment, are not necessary or appropriate to protect the
City’s interests and the purposes
and intent of this Chapter.
(p)
Record
Drawings.
Within
sixty (60) days after completion of
Construction, registered Service Providers shall furnish the City with
the following information for all
Facilities Constructed:
(1) Drawings, plans, and specifications, submitted in an electronic format which is available to the Service
Provider and acceptable to the Director, or, if an acceptable electronic format is not available, on paper, in sufficient detail to demonstrate:
A. The location of each component
of the Service Provider’s installation
including the location, size, and
depth of each conduit, duct, duct
bank, or the location of cable within leased conduit space, the location
of each pole, pole attachment, and
the route of each overhead cable,
and the size and location of any
other Facilities installed by the Service Provider. Maps submitted on
paper shall use a scale of not less
than 1" = 200'.
B. The location and route of any
Facilities installed on existing utility poles.
C. The location and route of any
Facilities located under the surface
of the ground, including the line
and grade for the burial at all
points, as well as the location of all
existing underground utilities, conduits,
ducts,
pipes,
mains,
and
installations within the area excavated in conjunction with the installation. With respect to the location
of existing facilities, the furnishing
of information obtained from the
Ohio Utilities Protection Service is
sufficient for complying with the
provisions of division (p)(1)C. of
this section.
D. The location and position of
any Facilities located on the surface
of the Public Right-of-Way and evidence of an AGF Installation Permit
issued under Section 510.06 for the
Facilities.
E. The location and approximate
dimension of trees within or adjacent to the Public Right-of-Way that
were affected by any installation by
the Service Provider, together with
the action taken to protect, trim,
remove, replace, and restore any
trees disturbed.
F. A certificate stating that the
drawings, plans, and specifications
are accurate, complete, and comply
with all applicable technical codes,
rules and regulations unless such certificate is waived in writing by the
Director. The certificate shall be in
form acceptable to the Director and
shall be signed by either a registered
professional
engineer
or
by
an
employee of the applicant whose
duties include review of drawings,
plans, and specifications in order to
verify their accuracy, completeness
and compliance with applicable technical codes, rules and regulations.

12
(q)
Field
Identification.
Commencing on January 1, 2008, Service
Providers shall field identify in a
readily available location by means
of a mark or tag in a manner, form
and at such time as is acceptable to
the Director, all new or replacement
Facilities constructed or installed at
the surface of the Public Right-ofWay and, in conjunction with Public Right-of-Way improvements constructed by the City, all existing
Facilities
owned
by
a
Service
Provider and located on the surface
of the portion of the Public Rightof-Way to be improved by the City.
(r) Restoration of Improvements.
On completion of any Construction
work, registered Service Providers
shall promptly repair any and all
Public Rights-of-Way and provide
property
improvements,
fixtures,
structures and Facilities which were
damaged during the course of Construction, restoring the same as
nearly as practicable to its condition
before the start of Construction.
(s) Landscape Restoration.
(1) All trees, landscaping and
grounds removed, damaged or disturbed as a result of the Construction,
Reconstruction,
installation,
maintenance, repair or replacement
of Facilities must be replaced or
restored as nearly as may be practicable, to the condition existing
prior to performance of work as
determined by the Commissioner of
Urban Forestry, except to the extent
that tree trimming is necessary to
prevent the interference of tree
branches with Overhead Facilities.
If, in the opinion of the Commissioner of Urban Forestry, any trees
cannot be replaced or restored in the
same location, an equal number of
trees shall be planted in the Public
Right-of-Way at a location or locations determined by the Commissioner of Urban Forestry.
(2) All restoration work within
the Public Right-of-Way shall be
done under landscape plans approved by the Director.
(t) Responsibility of Owner. The
owner of the Facilities to be Constructed, Reconstructed, installed,
located,
operated,
maintained
or
repaired and, if different, the Service Provider, are responsible for
performance of and compliance with
all provisions of this Section.
Section 510.05
Location, Relocation and Removal of Facilities
(a) Location of Facilities. All
Facilities shall be Constructed, Reconstructed, installed and located
under the following terms and conditions:
(1) Facilities shall be installed
within an existing compatible underground duct or conduit whenever
Excess Capacity exists within the
Facility.
(2) A Service Provider registered
to install Overhead Facilities shall
install its Facilities on pole attachments to existing utility poles only,
and then only if Surplus Overhead
Space is available.
(3) A Service Provider registered
to install Underground Facilities
shall install its Facilities only in
Surplus Underground Space.
(4) Whenever the existing electric, cable, telecommunications and
other similar Facilities are located

The City Record
underground in a Public Right-ofWay, a Service Provider registered
to Occupy or Use the same Public
Right-of-Way, must also locate its
Facilities underground.
(5) Except for Overhead Facilities
as provided in this section, no AGF
or AGF Clusters shall be located
above ground in a Public Right-ofWay without a AGF Installation
Permit issued under Section 510.06.
(6) No Facilities shall be located
under ground in the Public Right-ofWay without, as applicable, a Street
Opening Permit issued under Section
503.01 or a Sidewalk Construction
Permit issued under Sections 505.04
to 505.06, as deemed appropriate by
the Director.
(7) The City reserves the right to
require a Service Provider to provide Excess Capacity in the Public
Right-of-Way at the time of Construction, Reconstruction, installation, location or relocation of Facilities.
(b) Excess Capacity. To reduce
Excavation in the Public Right-ofWay, it is the City’s goal to encourage Service Providers to share occupancy of underground conduit as
well as to construct, whenever possible, excess conduit capacity for
occupancy of future Facilities in the
Public Right-of-Way. Therefore, if a
Service
Provider
is
constructing
underground conduit in the Public
Right-of-Way for its own Facilities,
and the City reasonably determines
the construction is in an area in
which other Service Providers would
likely construct Facilities in the
future, the City may require the
Service Provider to construct the
conduit in the Public Right-of-Way
with Excess Capacity in the Public
Right-of-Way, provided the Service
Provider shall be reimbursed for the
use of the Excess Capacity by
another Service Provider. The Service Provider may charge a reasonable market lease rate for occupancy of the additional conduit space as
reimbursement.
(c) City Owned Conduit. If the
City owns or leases conduit in the
path of a Service Provider’s proposed Facilities, and provided it is
technologically feasible for the Service Provider’s Facilities to Occupy
the conduit owned or leased by the
City, the Service Provider shall be
required to Occupy the conduit
owned or leased by the City in order
to reduce the necessity to Excavate
the Public Right-of-Way. The Service Provider shall pay to the City
a fee for Occupancy which shall be
the cost the Service Provider would
have expended to construct its own
conduit, as certified by the Service
Provider’s engineer and approved by
the City Engineer. The City and the
Service Provider may agree to amortize the fee through annual payments to the City.
(d) Relocation or Removal of
Facilities. Within thirty (30) days
following written notice from the
City, a Service Provider shall, at its
own expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate, change or
alter the position of any Facilities
in the Public Right-of-Way whenever the City shall have determined
that
such
removal,
relocation,
change or alteration is reasonably
necessary for:

1432

August 15, 2007
(1) The Construction, Reconstruction, repair, maintenance or installation of any City public improvement in or on the Public Right-ofWay.
(2) The operations of the City or
other governmental entity in or on
the Public Right-of-Way.
(e)
Removal
of
Unauthorized
Facilities. Within thirty (30) days
following written notice from the
City, any Service Provider or other
Person that owns, controls or maintains any unregistered System, Facility or related appurtenances in the
Public Right-of-Way shall, at its own
expense, remove those Facilities or
appurtenances
from
the
Public
Right-of-Way of the City or shall
arrange to sell the System, Facilities
or appurtenances to the City. After
the thirty (30) days have expired,
the City may remove the Facilities
or appurtenances from the Public
Right-of-Way at the other party’s
expense. A System or Facility is
unauthorized and subject to removal
in the following circumstances:
(1) If the System or Facility was
Constructed, Reconstructed, installed,
operated, located or maintained without registering, except as otherwise
provided by this Chapter;
(2) On abandonment of a Facility
in the Public Right-of-Way of the
City, with the exception of underground facilities abandoned in a
manner authorized and approved by
the City;
(3) If the System or Facility was
Constructed, Reconstructed, installed,
operated, located or maintained, or
any Excavation of a Public Rightof-Way
was
performed,
without
prior issuance of a required permit
from the City, except as otherwise
provided by this Chapter;
(4) If the System or Facility was
Constructed, Reconstructed, installed,
operated, located or maintained, or
any Excavation of a Public Rightof-Way was performed, at a location
not identified in the City’s registration to Occupy or Use the Public
Right-of-Way;
(5) If the Service Provider fails to
comply
with
the
Registration
requirements of this Chapter.
(f) Emergency Removal or Relocation of Facilities. The City retains
the right and privilege to cut or
move any Facilities, or stop work on
any
Construction,
Reconstruction,
installation, operation or Excavation, located in the Public Right-ofWay of the City, as the City may
determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful in response to any
need to protect the public health,
safety or welfare; except to the
extent that the City’s actions would
cause a dangerous or potentially
dangerous situation.
Section 510.06 AGF Installation
Permits
(a) Permit Required. No Service
Provider shall install, place or maintain Above Ground Facilities in the
Public Right-of-Way without first
obtaining an AGF Installation Permit issued by the Director under
this section or in violation of the
regulations for AGF and AGF Clusters in this section or Rules and
Regulations promulgated by the
Director under division (e)(9) of
this section.

August 15, 2007
(b) Application Process. Applications for AGF Installation Permits
shall be filed with the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction
and shall contain the following
information:
(1) A detailed description of the
AGF or AGF Cluster, including the
dimensions of each installation and
the potential noise level resulting
from the operation of the installation;
(2) A site or landscape plan
drawn to scale showing the proposed installation with elevation
drawings, and photographs of the
proposed location for the AGF before installation, including the dimensions of the existing street
improvements
in
the
proximate
vicinity of the proposed AGF and
the distance from the proposed AGF
to existing buildings on the adjoining and abutting lots;
(3) Mailing address labels of
adjoining lots, abutting lots, and
lots across the Public Right-of-Way
from the adjoining and abutting
lots;
(4) The zoning of the adjoining
and abutting lots and the identity of
any existing AGF in the City Block
in which the AGF is proposed to be
installed;
(5) The identity, legal status, and
federal tax identification number of
the Service Provider for the AGF;
(6) The name, address, telephone
number, and e-mail address of the
local officer, agent or employee
responsible for the accuracy of the
information contained in the application for the AGF application; and
(7) A copy of the Graffiti Mitigation Plan prepared by the Service
Provider under division (d) of this
section.
(c) Permit Fee. Each Service Provider applying for an AGF Installation Permit shall pay a fee to reimburse the City for its administrative
costs
related
to
processing
of
reviewing the permit application
and issuing the permit as provided
in Section 510.07.
(d) Graffiti Mitigation Plans. The
exterior of each AGF and AGF Cluster shall resist graffiti and be maintained in a “like new” condition.
Each Service Provider shall submit
a Graffiti Mitigation Plan detailing
how each AGF or AGF Cluster operated by the Service Provider shall
be maintained free from graffiti and
other
defacements
(i.e.
stickers,
posters). The Graffiti Mitigation
Plan shall contain a commitment to
inspect every AGF or AGF Cluster
operated by the Service Provider in
the Public Right-of-Way at a minimum of four (4) times per year and
include identification of resources
dedicated to maintaining a “like
new” appearance. In addition, each
Graffiti Mitigation Plan shall provide the name, mailing address,
phone number and email address of
a single point of contact responsible
to resolve graffiti issues should they
occur. The Graffiti Mitigation Plan
should clearly state that AGF surfaces shall be restored to original
exterior appearance following installation.
(e) AGF Regulations.
(1) Except for locations and plans
reviewed and approved by the City
Planning Commission, Service Pro-

The City Record
viders are prohibited from installing
AGF and AGF Clusters in the following areas:
A. Large Scale Housing Developments as described in Section 355.06;
B. Open Space and Recreation Districts as described in Chapter 342;
and
C. Public Land Protective Districts as described in Chapter 341.
(2) Except for locations and plans
approved by the Landmarks Commission, Service Providers are prohibited from installing AGF and
AGF Clusters in Landmarks Districts as described in Section 161.04.
(3) AGF and AGF Clusters may
be located on tree lawns and amenity areas between a Public Street
and the sidewalk provided that the
tree lawn or amenity area has a
minimum width of ten (10) feet.
(4) AGF and AGF Clusters, including any doors, shall maintain an
unobstructed sidewalk width of six
(6) feet to provide for unimpeded
pedestrian and wheelchair passage,
and a minimum of two (2) feet
unobstructed
distance
from
the
perimeter of the AGF or AGF Cluster to the roadway curb face.
(5) In order to maintain vehicular
line of sight and sight distance,
AGF and AGF Clusters are prohibited in that portion of Public Rightof-Way or private property located
at any corner and bounded by curb
line of intersecting streets and a
line joining the points on the curb
and a line joining the points on the
curb forty-five (45) feet from the
point of intersection of the extended curb. AGF and AGF Clusters are
prohibited adjacent to driveways
and alley intersections where the
sight distance for exiting vehicular
traffic would be reduced to less than
two hundred (200) feet.
(6) No AGF or AGF Cluster shall
be installed:
A. Within five (5) feet of any fire
hydrant;
B. Within five (5) feet of any driveway;
C. Where there is no bus shelter
at a bus stop, within forty (40) feet
back of a sign identifying a particular bus company or bus route and
marking a designated bus stop;
D. Where there is a bus shelter at
a bus stop, within five (5) feet forward and forty (40) feet back of the
end of the shelter identified as serving a particular bus company or bus
route and marking a designated bus
stop;
E. Within three (3) feet of any
traffic sign;
F. Within three (3) feet of any
public utility pole, provided further
that placement adjacent to a public
utility pole shall be limited to one
side of the pole;
G. Within an area designated for
handicapped parking, a taxi stand
or a commercial loading or unloading zone; or
H. Immediately in front of buildings, houses, structures, or public
stairs such that it causes a violation
of ADA guidelines for pedestrian
passage between private property
and the Public Rights-of-Way.
(7) Advertising. Advertising is prohibited on AGF and AGF Clusters.
(8) Removal. Service Providers, at
their cost and expense, shall remove
any AGF and AGF Clusters that are

1433

13
abandoned, become obsolete, are
unused for more than ninety (90)
days or installed without an AGF
Installation Permit issued under
this section.
(9) Additional Regulations. The
Director is charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this
section and is hereby authorized to
adopt, promulgate and enforce additional Rules and Regulations relating to AGF and AGF Clusters not in
conflict with the provisions of this
section, including the maximum or
minimum dimensions of AGF or
AGF Clusters, the color and finishes of any cabinets in which AGF or
AGF Clusters are located, Service
Provider identification on all AGF
and AGF Clusters, landscaping considerations, permissible configuration of AGF Clusters, the maximum
number of installations of AGF or
AGF Clusters in Public Right-ofWay per City Block and the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this section. Rules and
Regulations promulgated by the
Director shall become effective upon
publication in the City Record. Failure or refusal to comply with any
Rules and Regulations promulgated
by the Director shall be deemed a
violation of this section.
(f) Other Permits. A Service Provider that is issued an AGF Installation Permit issued under this section is not required to obtain a
Street Obstruction Permit issued
under Section 411.011 or a Sidewalk
Obstruction Permit issued under Section 507.06. If the installation of
AGF and AGF Clusters requires
installation of Underground Facilities, a Service Provider must also
obtain a Street Opening Permit
issued under Section 503.01 or a Sidewalk Construction Permit issued
under Sections 505.04 to 505.06 as
deemed appropriate by the Director.
(g) Additional Penalty. In addition to any penalty imposed for a
violation of this Chapter under Section 510.99, the Director, following
notice in writing to a Service
Provider of the Service Provider’s
failure to comply with this section,
shall not issue any new AGF Installation
Permits
to
the
Service
Provider until such time as the violations of this section as detailed in
the notice are corrected.
Section 510.07 Recovery of City
Costs
(a) Purpose. It is the purpose of
this Section 510.07 to provide for the
recovery of all direct and indirect
costs and expenses actually incurred
by the City and associated with the
registration of a Service Provider’s
Occupancy or Use of the Public
Right-of-Way,
the
reviewing
of
applications for and issuing AGF
Installation Permits, and related to
the enforcement and administration
of this Chapter. All registration and
permit fees shall be assessed in a
manner to be determined by the
Director and approved by the Board
of Control.
(b) Regulatory Fees and Compensation Not a Tax. The fees and costs
provided for in this Chapter are separate from, and additional to, any
and all federal, State, local and City
taxes as may be levied, imposed or
due from a Service Provider, its cus-

14
tomers or subscribers, or on account
of the lease, sale, delivery or transmission of Services.
Section 510.08 Miscellaneous Provisions
(a) Preemption by State and Federal Law. Except as may be preempted by applicable State or Federal laws, rates, regulations, and
orders, this Chapter shall apply and
be controlling over each Service
Provider engaged in the business of
transmitting, supplying or furnishing of Services originating, passing
through, or terminating in the City.
(b) Compliance with Other Applicable City Code Provisions. Except as expressly provided in this
Chapter, a Service Provider registered to Occupy and Use the Public
Right-of-Way under this Chapter is
not relieved of any obligation to
obtain
a
franchise,
license,
encroachment permit, street opening
permit or other permit which may
be additionally required by the City
under law, including any required
by the following sections and Chapters of the Codified Ordinances:
(1) Section 411.011 relating to
Street Obstruction Permits.
(2) Chapter 503 relating to street
openings and maintenance.
(3) Section 507.06 relating to Sidewalk Obstruction Permits.
(4) Chapter 523 relating to electrical poles.
(5) Chapter 670B relating to pay
telephones.
(6) Chapter 3105 relating to building permits.
(7) Chapter 3109 relating to encroachments.
(c) Compliance with Other Laws.
Nothing in this Chapter shall relieve
a Service Provider from its obligation to comply with all applicable
federal, State and City laws, including the obligation to obtain any and
all applicable licenses, permits or
other authorizations necessary to
the operation and conduct of its
business or the occupation or use of
the Public Right-of-Way. In the
event of a conflict between the provisions of this Chapter and other
provisions contained in the Codified
Ordinances, the provisions of this
Chapter shall govern. Should there
be a direct conflict between the provisions in this Chapter and the provisions contained in a Franchise
Ordinance or Agreement, the provisions of the Franchise Ordinance or
Agreement shall prevail; provided,
however, that additional obligations
shall not be construed as a conflict.
(d) Director’s Rules and Regulations. The Director is charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of
this Chapter and is hereby authorized to adopt, promulgate and
enforce Rules and Regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the registration of Service
Providers and the administration
and enforcement of the provisions of
this Chapter. Rules and Regulations
promulgated by the Director shall
become effective upon publication in
the City Record. Failure or refusal
to comply with any Rules and Regulations promulgated by the Director shall be deemed a violation of
this Chapter.
(e) Exemption for City-Owned or
Operated Facilities. Nothing in this

The City Record
Chapter shall be construed to apply
the provisions of this Chapter to
Facilities owned or operated by the
City or any of its operations.
(f) Severability. If any section,
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase,
or other portion of this Chapter, or
its application to any Person or Service Provider, is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part
by any court or agency of competent
jurisdiction, said decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this Chapter.
Section 510.99 Penalties and Other
Remedies
(a) Criminal Penalty. Any Person
found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. A separate and distinct offense shall be deemed committed each day on which a violation occurs or continues.
(b) Other Remedies. Nothing in
this Chapter shall be construed as
limiting any judicial remedies that
the City may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of this Chapter.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 are
supplemented by enacting new Section 503.013 to read as follows:
Section 503.013
Street Pavement
Preservation
(a) Purpose and Intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to:
(1) Regulate the cumulative and
repetitive impacts to the public
right-of-way from the construction,
reconstruction, installation, repair
and maintenance of equipment and
facilities located in the public rightof-way;
(2) Minimize pavement degradation;
(3) Maintain the structural integrity of roadway services; and
(4) Maintain a smooth riding surface for all modes of traffic.
(b) After any public street has
been constructed, reconstructed or
repaved under City or other governmental contract or accepted under
ordinance passed by Council, the
pavement surface shall not thereafter be cut or opened for a period
of five (5) years.
(c)
The
Director
shall
grant
exceptions to the prohibition contained in division (b) of this section
in order to facilitate development on
adjacent
properties,
provide
for
emergency repairs to subsurface
facilities, provide for underground
service connection to adjacent properties or to allow the upgrading of
underground facilities in accordance
with
rules
promulgated
by
the
Director and published in the City
Record. When granting exceptions,
the Director may impose conditions
appropriate to insure the rapid and
complete restoration of the street
and paving surface. Repaving may
include surface grinding, base and
sub-base repairs, or other related
work as needed, and may include up
to full-width surface paving of the
roadway.
(d) If the Director determines that
final repaving of the street is not
appropriate at that particular time
for reasons relating to weather or

1434

August 15, 2007
other short term problems, the Director may grant a delay until proper
conditions allow repaving.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Public Utilities, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Service, Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1243-07.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of LED bulbs,
for the Division of Traffic Engineering, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year or two years
of the necessary items of LED bulbs
used in traffic and pedestrian signals, in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Division of
Traffic Engineering, Department of
Public Service. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Service is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract or contracts shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 364, 20 SF 373,
20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20
SF 500, 20 SF 506, and 20 SF 510 and
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 171952)

August 15, 2007
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Service may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1244-07.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into a property adoption agreement with Midtown Cleveland, Inc.,
to provide lighting, maintenance,
landscaping, and other fixtures to
property located at the southeast
corner of Euclid Avenue and East
55th Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 and
Section 133.24 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into a property adoption
agreement
with
Midtown
Cleveland, Inc., to provide lighting,
maintenance,
landscaping,
and
other fixtures to property within
the northern triangular section of
Permanent Parcel No. 118-11-001,
which is located at the southeast
corner of Euclid Avenue and East
55th Street.
Section 2. That this property adoption shall not be construed as a conveyance of any right, title, or interest in public property, but is the
grant of a privilege revocable at the
will of Council.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to accept the gift of any improvements
to the adopted property landscaped
and maintained by Midtown Cleveland, Inc., except for the sculpture
entitled “The Politician: A Toy”,
which will be relocated to the adopted property and maintained under
the terms and conditions of the property adoption agreement authorized
in this ordinance.
Section 4. That the property adoption agreement authorized shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency mea-

The City Record
sure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1245-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health
to apply for and accept a grant
from the United States Department
of Health and Human Services for
the ASIST Cleveland 2010 Program;
authorizing the purchase by one or
more
requirement
contracts
of
materials, equipment, supplies, services; and authorizing the director
to enter into contract with NEON,
and various entities, agencies, or
individuals needed to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $284,187.00,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from the United States Department of Health and Human Services
to conduct the ASIST Cleveland 2010
Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes described in the summary
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1245-07-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority, is
approved in all respects, including
the obligation to devote program
income from first and third party
billings.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public
Health
is
authorized
to
charge and accept fees from participants of this program and to deposit those fees into a revolving
fund which will be used to provide
additional materials, equipment, supplies, and services under the program described in the file, and the

1435

15
funds are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant term of the necessary
items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed to implement the grant, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies on a unit basis for the
Department of Public Health. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 7. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 8. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Health may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 9. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
NEON to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 10. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance and from the
revolving fund to which are credited the first and third party
billings.
Section 11. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.

16
Ord. No. 1246-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Roche,
aka
F.
Hoffman-Laroche
Ltd., for the Hepatitis Outreach and
Vaccination Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $40,000.00, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from Roche, aka F. Hoffman-Laroche Ltd., to conduct the Hepatitis
Outreach and Vaccination Program;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the summary for
the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1246-07-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation, is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1247-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
The Sisters of Charity Foundation
for the Health Promotion through
Health Literacy Program; authorizing the director to employ one or
more professional consultants to
conduct a literacy audit; and authorizing the director to enter into one
or more contracts with the American
Medical Association and Cleveland
Reads to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $50,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from The Sisters of Charity Foundation to conduct the Health Promotion through Health Literacy Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes described in the summary
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1247-07-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation, is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Heath shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to conduct a literacy audit under the grant.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Health from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Health for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Health, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
Cleveland Reads to implement the
grant as described in the file.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
American Medical Association to
conduct the “Train the Trainer”
workshop as described in the file.
Section 8. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.

1436

August 15, 2007
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1248-07.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Radio Satellite Integrators for maintenance and support of hardware and
software needed for the AVL System,
including parts and labor, for the
Division of Emergency Medical Service, Department of Public Safety,
for a period up to three years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Radio Satellite Integrators. Therefore the Director of Public Safety is
authorized to make one or more
written contracts with Radio Satellite Integrators on the basis of its
proposals dated July 14, 2006 and
July 18, 2007, in the total sum of
$43,750 for maintenance and support
of hardware and software needed
for the AVL System, including parts
and labor, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, for the Division of Emergency
Medical Service, Department of Public Safety, for a period up to three
years. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be paid from Fund
No. 01-600402-661200, Request No.
164256.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1249-07.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of Justice for the 2007 Edward Byrne
Memorial Justice Assistance Grant;
authorizing the purchase by one or
more contracts of one patrol boat;
and authorizing the Director to
enter into a memorandum of under-

August 15, 2007
standing with the cities of Lakewood,
Euclid,
Garfield
Heights,
Parma and the Board of Cuyahoga
County Commissioners to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public
Safety
is
authorized
to
apply for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $422,644,
and any other funds that may become available during the grant
terms, from the United States Department of Justice to conduct the
2007 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice
Assistance
Grant
Program;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the application
and description for the grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the application
and description for the grant, File
No. 1249-07-A, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority, is approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
each or all of the following items:
one patrol boat to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies for a gross price, for the
Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety.
Section 5. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 6. That the cost of the contract or contacts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into a memorandum of understanding with the cities of Lakewood,
Euclid, Garfield Heights, Parma and
the Board of Cuyahoga County Commissioners to implement the grant
as described in the file.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1250-07.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety, Emergency Management Agency,
for the 2006 Buffer Zone Protection
Program; authorizing the purchase
by one or more requirements contracts of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to
implement the program; authorizing
the Director to employ one or more
consultants to provide professional
services necessary to implement the
program; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or more contracts or memoranda of understanding with The Clorox Company to
implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $179,550, from the Ohio
Department of Public Safety, Emergency Management Agency, for the
2006 Buffer Zone Protection Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes described in the letters
dated October 18, 2006 and June 8,
2007 from the Ohio Department of
Public Safety for the grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the letters dated
October 18, 2006 and June 8, 2007
from the Ohio Department of Public
Safety for the grant, File No. 125007-A, made a part of this ordinance
as if fully rewritten, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority, is approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
grant term of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services necessary to implement the
program, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Police, Department of Public
Safety. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commis-

1437

17
sioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the
fund or funds to which are charged
the proceeds of the grant accepted
under this ordinance and shall be
paid from the fund or funds to
which are charged the proceeds of
the grant accepted under this ordinance and shall be charged against
the proper appropriation accounts
and the Director of Finance shall
certify the amount of the initial purchase,
which
purchase,
together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
requisition against the contract or
contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
program.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Safety from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Safety for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Safety, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts or memoranda of understanding with The
Clorox Company to implement the
grant as described in the file.
Section 9. That the costs of the
contracts authorized in this ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.

18
Ord. No. 1251-07.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to apply for and accept a grant
from Cuyahoga County for the 2007
Paul Coverdell Forensic Science
Improvement Program and authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of one gas chromatograph
and mass spectrometer to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $95,000 and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term,
from Cuyahoga County to conduct
the 2007 Paul Coverdell Forensic Science Improvement Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the application for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 1251-07-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority, is
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
each or all of the following items:
one gas chromatograph and one
mass spectrometer to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies for a gross price, for
the Division of Police, Department
of Public Safety.
Section 5. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance
may be made through cooperative
agreements using state procedures.
The Director Public Safety of may
sign all documents with the State
of Ohio or any of its political subdivisions that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into contract or contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds which are
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1252-07.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of Justice to conduct the 2007 COPS Secure
Our Schools Program; and authorizing one or more contracts with
Foremost Safety Solutions, Inc. to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $80,000 and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the United States Department
of Justice to conduct the 2007 COPS
Secure Our Schools Program; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the grant application and
executive summary for the grant
contained
in
the
file
described
below.
Section 2. That the grant application and executive summary for the
grant, File No. 1252-07-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, including the obligation
of the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the approximate sum of $80,000, from Fund
Nos. 10 SF 025 and 01-600200-639905,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
Foremost Safety Solutions, Inc. to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance
and the cash match.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

1438

August 15, 2007
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1253-07.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Sections 387.01 to 387.15 and 387.99
and Sections 394.01 to 394.16 and
394.99 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted
and amended by various ordinances;
and to enact new Sections 387.01 to
387.18 and 387.99 and Sections 394.01
to 394.15 and 394.99 relating to
explosives and hazardous material
transportation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 387.01, enacted by Ordinance No. 2074-58, passed December
15, 1958,
Section 387.02, amended by Ordinance No. 778-76, passed June 14,
1976,
Section 387.03, enacted by Ordinance No. 2074-58, passed December
15, 1958,
Section 387.04, as amended by
Ordinance No. 84-70, passed March 1,
1971,
Sections 387.05, 387.06, 387.07, and
387.08, as enacted by Ordinance No.
2074-58, passed December 15, 1958,
Section 387.09, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1150-60, passed June
27, 1960,
Section 387.10, 387.11, 387.12, 387.13,
387.14, 387.15, and 387.99 as enacted
by Ordinance No. 2074-58, passed
December 15, 1958,
Section 394.01 to and including
394.16 and 394.99, as enacted by Ordinance No. 866-92, passed April 27,
1992,
are repealed.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances are supplemented by enacting new Sections 387.01 to 387.18 and
387.99 to read as follows:
Chapter 387
EXPLOSIVES, INCLUDING
THE INDOOR AND
OUTDOOR DISPLAY OF
PYROTECHNICS, FLAME
EFFECTS, AND LASERS
Section 387.01 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
(a) “Artificial barricade” means
any artificial mound or properly
revetted wall of earth of minimum
thickness of not less than three feet
or an equivalent protection.
(b) “Binary system” means a twocomponent system for mixing certain pyrotechnic materials on site.
The items are commonly shipped as
separate ingredients: an oxidizer
typically labeled “A”; and a fuel,
typically labeled “B”. These ingredients do not become a pyrotechnic
material until they are mixed.

August 15, 2007
(c) “Black powder” means a low
explosive consisting of an intimate
mixture of potassium or sodium
nitrate, charcoal, and sulfur.
(d) “Blaster” means a qualified
person in charge of and responsible
for the loading and firing of an
explosive.
(e) “Blasting agent” means an
explosive material that meets prescribed criteria for insensitivity to
initiation.
For storage, a blasting agent is
any material or mixture, consisting
of fuel and oxidizer, intended for
blasting and not otherwise defined
as an explosive; if the finished product, as mixed for use or shipment,
cannot be detonated by means of a
No. 8 test blasting cap when unconfined.
27
C.F.R.
Section
55.11
(Bureau
of
Alcohol,
Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives regulation).
For transportation, a Class 1, Division 1.5 blasting agent is a substance that is a mass explosion hazard, but is so insensitive that there
is very little probability of initiation
or of transition from burning to detonation under normal conditions of
transport. 49 C.F.R. Section 173.50
(U.S. Department of Transportation
[DOT]).
(f) “Consumer fireworks” or “common fireworks” mean any small fireworks device designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion or deflagration that complies
with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of
the U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission, as set forth in 16 C.F.R.
Parts 1500-1507. Consumer fireworks
include small devices designed to
produce audible effects, such as
whistling
devices,
and
ground
devices containing 50 mg (0.002 g)
or less of explosive composition
(salute powder) per explosive unit
and aerial devices containing 130
mg or less of explosive material.
Consumer fireworks are classified
as fireworks UN 0336 and UN 0337
by the DOT, at 49 CFR Section
172.101. This term does not include
fused setpieces containing components that together exceed 50 mg of
salute powder. Consumer fireworks,
as used in this chapter, are considered
pyrotechnic
material
and
pyrotechnics.
(g) “Deflagration” means an explosive reaction such as a rapid combustion that moves through an explosive material at a velocity less than
the speed of sound in the material.
(h) “Detonation” means an exothermic
reaction
that
moves
through an explosive material at a
velocity greater than the speed of
sound.
(i) “Display fireworks” means
firework devices intended for use in
fireworks display that are designed
to produce visible or audible effects
for entertainment purposes by combustion, deflagration, or detonation.
The term “display fireworks” includes consumer fireworks to be
used in fireworks displays, larger
devices of similar construction and
chemical
composition
that
are
classed as Explosives 1.3G and
described as Fireworks UN0333, UN
0334, and UN 0335 by the DOT, and
other devices that produce visible or
audible effects for entertainment

The City Record
purposes that are classed as Explosives 1.3G, 1.4G, or 1.4S, and described as pyrotechnics and pyrotechnic material by the DOT. This
term also includes fused setpieces
containing components that together exceed 50 mg of salute powder.
(j) “DOT and “DOTn” mean U.S.
Department of Transportation.
(k) “Exhibitor” means an Ohio
exhibitor licensed under the requirements of Ohio Rev. Code Ann.
Section 3743.50 to 3743.55.
(l) “Explosive” means:
(1) Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or common purpose of which is to function
by explosion, i.e., with substantially
instantaneous release of gas and
heat. This includes, but is not limited to, dynamite and other high
explosives, black powder and pellet
powder, slurries, emulsions, water
gels, initiating explosives, detonators (blasting caps), safety fuses,
squibs, detonating cord, igniter cord,
igniters,
fireworks,
and
pyrotechnics.
(2) The term “explosive” includes
any material determined to be within the scope of 18 U.S.C. Chapter 40,
Importation, Manufacture, Distribution and Storage of Explosive Materials, issued at least annually by the
Director of the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
of the Department of the Justice,
and also includes any material classified as an explosive by the hazardous material regulations of the
DOTn (49 C.F.R.)
(3) The term “explosive” must
also include all of the following categories in 49 C.F.R. Parts 1-199, as
follows:
Division 1.1 - Mass exploding
(Class A explosives)
Division 1.2 - Projection hazard
(Class A or B explosives)
Division 1.3 - Fire hazard, minor
blast (Class B explosives) - or projection hazard or both Division 1.4 Minor explosion hazard (Class C
explosive) - not mass detonating
Division 1.5 - Insensitive explosives. (blasting agents) - very little
probability of initiation or transition
from burning to detonation under
normal conditions of transport.
Division 1.6 - Extremely Insensitive Detonating Substances
(EIDS) that must pass DOTn criteria as such.
The requirements of this chapter
pertaining to the use, storage, and
handling of explosives, including
the
permit
required
by
Section
387.06, applies to explosives as
defined in divisions (l)(1), (l)(2), or
(l)(3) of Section 387.01 of this Chapter. The requirements of this chapter pertaining to the transportation
of explosives apply only to explosives as defined in division (l)(3) of
Section 387.01 of this Chapter.
(m) “Explosives interchange lot”
means a specially designated safe
area of a motor vehicle terminal
where less-than-truckload lots of
explosives can be held for transfer
from one vehicle to another for continuance in transportation.
(n)
“Explosives
motor
vehicle
facility” means a designated area
where motion vehicles transporting
explosives can be parked, pending
further movement in transportation.

1439

19
(o) “Fireworks” means any composition or device prepared for the
purpose of producing a visible or an
audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and meeting
the definition of Consumer Fireworks or Display Fireworks as
defined in this section, or as defined
in other NFPA standards. For purposes of this chapter, all fireworks
are considered pyrotechnic material
or pyrotechnics.
(1) “Fireworks” does not include
toy caps for use in toy pistols, toy
canes, toy guns, and novelties, and
trick noisemakers, not containing
more than an average of .25 grains
(16mg) of explosive composition per
cap, provided they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when it is in place
for explosion.
(2) “Fireworks” does not include
model rockets and model rocket
motors designed, sold, and used for
the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models.
(p) “Fireworks exhibition” means
any presentation or discharge of
fireworks. A fireworks exhibition
includes, but is not limited to, those
displays conducted in accordance
with the provisions of Chapter 3743
of the Revised Code or any variance
issued under it, this rule, and NFPA
1123 listed in Rule 1301:7-7-44 of the
Ohio Administrative Code.
(q) “1.4G Fireworks” means “Consumer Fireworks” consistent with
regulations of DOTn (49 C.F.R).
(r) “1.3G Fireworks” means “Display Fireworks” consistent with regulations of DOTn (49 C.F.R.).
(s) “1.4S Fireworks” means pyrotechnic devices for professional use
in the performing arts in conjunction with theatrical, musical or
other productions that are similar to
“consumer fireworks” in chemical
composition and construction, but
not intended for consumer use.
Those fireworks shall be classified
as “Article Pyrotechnic 1.4S” and
marked and labeled in conformance
with Title 49 C.F.R.
(t) “Fixed facility” means any
building or property where materials or articles are received, shipped,
stored, transferred, picked up, or
delivered, and includes without limitation, a terminal, storage facility,
explosives interchange lot, explosives motor vehicle terminal, and
intermodal facility.
(u) “Flame effects” has the meaning as defined in NFPA Standard
160. An indoor or outdoor flame
effect resulting from the combustion
of flammable solids, liquids, or
gases to produce thermal, physical,
visual, or audible phenomena before
an audience. Flame effects for entertainment, exhibition, demonstration,
or simulation before an audience,
and/or as determined by the Fire
Chief, shall be defined as regulated
by this chapter.
(v) “Highway” means any interstate, public street, public alley,
public road or other public thoroughfare.
(w) “Interstate highway” means
the highways in the City of Cleveland identified as Interstates 71, 77,
90, 480, 176 and 490.
(x) “Inhabited building” means
any building regularly occupied in

20
whole or part as a habitation for
human
beings,
or
any
church,
school-house, railroad station, store,
or other structure where people are
accustomed to assemble, except any
building or structure occupied in
connection with the manufacture,
transportation, storage or use of
explosives.
(y) “Intermodal facilities” means
any designated area where truck
trailers,
storage
containers,
and
other vehicles used in the transportation of hazardous materials are
received, shipped, loaded onto, unloaded from, or stored in connection
with two or more modes of transportation.
(z) “Laser” means a device that
produces an intense, coherent, directional beam of light by stimulating
electronic or molecular transitions
to lower energy levels. It also
means an acronym for light amplification by simulated emission of
radiation (ANSI Z136.1). As used in
this section, lasers must mean Class
III or IV lasers, as defined by the
Bureau
of
Radiological
Health,
when used in front of a proximate
audience for purposes of visual or
special effects.
(aa)
“Lycopodium”
means
the
spores produced by the genus of
mosses called lycopodium. This powdery, organic, yellow, material can
be agitated and dispersed mechanically into a cloud and then ignited
by a spark, pilot flame, or electrical
heating device. Although not a
pyrotechnic material, this material
is used by special effects operators
to produce fire effects or in conjunction with other pyrotechnics to
create a special effect.
(bb) “Magazine” means any building, structure, or container, other
than an explosives manufacturing
building, approved for the storage of
explosive materials.
(cc) “Motor vehicle” includes a
vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or
semi trailer, or a combination of
them,
propelled
or
drawn
by
mechanical power and used on the
highways in the transportation of
passengers or property. It does not
include a vehicle, locomotive, or car
operated exclusively on a rail or
rails, or a trolley bus operated by
electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire, furnishing local passenger
transportation
similar
to
street railway service.
(dd) “Natural barricade” means
natural features of the ground, such
as hills, or timber of sufficient density that the surrounding exposures
that require protection cannot be
seen from the magazine when the
trees are bare of leaves.
(ee) “NFPA” means National Fire
Protection Association.
(ff) “Operator” means a person
with overall responsibility for the
safety, setup and discharge of an
outdoor fireworks display.
(gg)
“Permit”
means
written
authority issued by the City of
Cleveland Fire Chief or his or her
duly authorized representative.
(hh) “Person” means an individual, association, corporation, business, partnership or other legal entity or group of individuals.
(ii) “Proximate audience” means
an audience closer to pyrotechnic

The City Record
devices than allowed by NFPA
1123, Code for Fireworks Display.
This definition is also applicable to
the
indoor
or
outdoor
use
of
pyrotechnic materials in the performing arts in conjunction with
theatrical, musical, or similar productions or the filming of television, radio, or movie productions
before a proximate audience, performers, or support personnel. It
also applies to all use of lasers in
indoor or outdoor displays unless
otherwise determined by the City
of Cleveland Fire Chief.
(jj) “Pyrotechnic display” means a
display or performance of pyrotechnic material.
(kk) “Pyrotechnic material” means
a chemical mixture used in the
entertainment industry to produce
visible or audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation,
when the mixture predominantly
consists of solids capable of producing a controlled, self-sustaining,
and self-contained exothermic chemical reaction that results in heat,
gas, sound, light, or a combination
of these effects, and when the chemical
reaction
functions
without
external oxygen. For purposes of
this chapter, all fireworks are considered
pyrotechnic
material
or
pyrotechnics, and all pyrotechnics
are considered explosives.
(ll) “Railway” means any steam,
electric, diesel, electric or other railroad or railway.
(mm) “Receive” means to accept
delivery, or to take possession of
materials or articles; a “receiver”
may include, without limitation, a
consignee, a terminal, storage facility, or other fixed facility.
(nn) “Ship” means to turn over
possession of materials or articles
for
transport;
a
“shipper”
may
include, without limitation, a manufacturer, consignor, terminal, storage facility, or other fixed facility
or operation that has possession of
explosives prior to transport.
(oo) “Small arms ammunition”
means any cartridge for shotgun,
rifle, pistol, revolver, and cartridges
for
propellant-actuated
power
devices and industrial guns. Military-type
ammunition
containing
explosive bursting charges or any
incendiary,
tracer,
spotting,
or
pyrotechnic projectile is excluded
from this definition.
(pp) “Special Effects” means a visible or audible effect for entertainment purposes. Frequently an illusion: that is, something that appears
to be other than what it really is.
For example, smoke may be created
to give an audience the impression
of fog being present. Or a puff of
smoke, a flash of light, and a loud
sound may be produced to give an
audience the impression that a cannon has been fired, when in reality
a cannon has not been fired.
(qq) “Terminal” means a fixed
facility used by transporters for the
receipt, shipment, transfer, storage,
pick-up or delivery of articles or
materials.
(rr) “Transporter” means a person
engaged in the transport, movement
or carrying of explosives by a motor
vehicle on a highway.
(ss) “Vessel” means every description of watercraft, used or

1440

August 15, 2007
capable of being used, as a means
of transportation on the water.
Section 387.02
Adoption and Incorporation of Regulations and Standards
(a) The following laws and regulations and their successor regulations are adopted and incorporated
into this code as such laws and regulations exist at the time of passage
of this chapter or as they may be
amended to ensure the application
of these requirements to activities
within the City limits. Any violation
of these rules and regulations within the City limits is a violation of
this chapter:
(1) Title 49 C.F.R. Subchapter CHazardous
Materials
Regulations
are adopted and incorporated into
this Fire Prevention Code: Part 171General
Information,
regulations,
and definitions; Part 172-Hazardous
materials table, special provisions,
hazardous
materials
communications, emergency response information,
and
training
requirements;
Part
173-Shippers-general
requirements for shipments and packagings; Part 174-Carriage by rail; Part
175-Carriage by aircraft; Part 176Carriage by vessel; Part 177-Carriage by public highway; Part 178Specifications for packagings; Part
179-Specifications for tank cars; and
Part
180-Continuing
qualification
and maintenance of packagings; and
Part 397 - Transportation of Hazardous Materials, Driving and Parking Rules.
(2) NFPA Standard 115 - Laser
Fire Protection; NFPA Standard 495
- Explosive Materials Code; NFPA
498 - Explosives Motor Vehicles Terminal; NFPA Standard 1123 - Code
for Fireworks Display; NFPA Standard 1124 - Code for the Manufacture, Transportation and Storage of
Fireworks; NFPA Standard 1126 Use of Pyrotechnics Before a Proximate Audience; and NFPA Standard
160 - Flame Effects Before An Audience.
(3) Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms, and Explosives, Department of the Justice-27 C.F.R. Chapter I Part 555, Commerce in Explosives, Safe Explosives Act.
(4) ANSI Z136 - Safe Use of
Lasers.
(5) Chapter 3743 of the Revised
Code
and
Rules
1301:7-7-30
and
1301:7-7-31 of the Ohio Administrative Code.
(6) U.S. Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services standards for
lasers at 21 C.F.R. Chapter I Part
1040.
(7) Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CPSC”) 16 C.F.R. Chapter
II, Part 1507.
(b) When considered necessary
for safety to life or property, the
City of Cleveland Fire Chief may
also require compliance with any
explanatory material and recommended regulations appended to the
laws and regulations in division (a)
of this section. When any provision
of this chapter is found to be in conflict with the regulations adopted in
division (a) of this section, the provision that establishes the stricter
standard for the promotion and pro-

August 15, 2007
tection of the safety and welfare of
the public must prevail.
Section 387.03 Prohibitions
(a) A person shall not manufacture
any
gunpowder,
fireworks,
explosive compounds or detonating
or deflagrating substances within
the corporate limits of the City
except the manufacture of fireworks
as permitted in accordance with
Chapter 3743 of the Revised Code,
and OAC rule 1301:7:7-33, and applicable provisions of the NFPA, and
any stricter rules of the City Fire
Marshal to protect the public health
and safety. This division does not
apply to the mixing of binary systems, providing the mixing is done
in conformity with all federal, State
and City laws, and regulations and
the mixing is associated with a
pyrotechnic display, which has been
permitted under this chapter.
(b) A person shall not sell, purchase for, give away to, or otherwise dispose of, or deliver to, any
person less than eighteen years of
age, any explosives, including fireworks, whether the person is acting
on their own behalf or for any other
person.
(c) A person shall not knowingly
acquire, have, carry, or use any dangerous ordnance as defined in Section 627.01 of these Codified Ordinances (“Weapons and Explosives”)
unless excepted by Section 2923.17 of
the Revised Code (“Dangerous Ordnance and Explosives Strictly Regulated”) or the person is the holder
of a license or temporary permit
issued and in effect under Section
2923.18 of the Revised Code.
(d) A person shall not discharge
any firearms or fireworks at, or
against, any magazine or a vehicle
transporting explosives.
(e) A person shall not ship,
receive, store, possess, sell, use, or
discharge any explosives, pyrotechnics, fireworks, lasers, or flame
effects within the City except as
permitted
under
Sections
387.06,
387.09, and 387.10 of this chapter,
and in compliance with all applicable federal, State and City laws, and
regulations.
(f) A person shall not sell, offer
for sale, or have in his or her possession or custody, any squib, rocket, cracker, roman candle, or fire
balloon, or any other combustible
fireworks, or any article for the
making of a pyrotechnic display,
within the City, except as authorized by a permit issued by the City
Fire Chief under Sections 387.06 and
387.07 of this chapter.
(g) A vessel shall not operate in
the Cuyahoga River or elsewhere in
the City with explosives aboard,
whether for loading or unloading
explosives, unless such vessel is in
conformity with 49 C.F.R. Part 176
and the regulations of the United
States Coast Guard.
(h) A person shall not transport
explosives through the City unless
they are in compliance with all
applicable federal, State, and City
laws and regulations.
Section 387.04 Exceptions to Provisions
(a) This chapter does not apply
to: the regular military or naval
forces of the United States; the duly-

The City Record
authorized militia of the State; the
police, or fire divisions of the City,
County, or State, provided they are
acting within their official capacity
and in the proper performance of
their duties; or the laboratories, hospitals, schools, colleges, and similar
institutions when confined to the
purpose of demonstration, instruction, or research; or to explosives in
the forms authorized and procured
by the official United States Pharmacopoeia.
(b) This chapter does not apply to
the manufacture, sale, possession,
transportation, or use, in emergency
situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for
marine, aviation, or highway use.
(c) This chapter does not apply to
the manufacture, sale, storage, possession, or transportation of blank
cartridges in connection with theaters or shows or movie productions,
or blank cartridges in connection
with athletics as signals or for ceremonial purposes. Exception: The
use of blank cartridges in conjunction with theaters or shows or movie
productions shall be subject to
review and approval by the Fire
Marshal as to any applicable permitting and/or restrictions.
(d) This chapter does not apply to
the manufacture, sale, possession,
transportation, storage, or use of
sparklers on a wire stick, as defined
under DOTn.
Section 387.05
Operational and
Other Requirements
(a) In blasting operations as
described by NFPA 495, ground
vibrations,
airblast,
and
flyrock
must be monitored by a competent
person who is not in the employment of the blaster, unless otherwise specified by the City Fire
Chief. A “competent person” must be
an adult individual who is properly
trained to monitor the operations.
(b) To use any materials regulated under this chapter within the
City, a Certified Fire Safety Inspector(s) (CFSI) from the Cleveland
Fire Prevention Bureau must be on
the premises as prescribed by the
City of Cleveland Fire Marshal,
unless otherwise allowed by the
City Fire Chief.
(c) At all permitted explosives,
pyrotechnic, Class III or IV laser
displays, or flame effects associated
with a proximate audience, the City
Fire Chief or his duly authorized
representative shall be allowed to
be present and position themselves
in any place and manner they consider necessary for the protection of
the public during any performance
in which the items are used.
(d) When any permitted explosives or pyrotechnic display in the
City requires special communication,
for the safety of the public, the permit holder, blaster, exhibitor, and
operator is required to provide all
necessary communications equipment
to all safety forces requiring the
equipment.
(e) The permitting requirement
set forth in Section 387.06 of this
chapter shall not apply to “storage
incidental to transportation” as that
term has been defined under 49
U.S.C. Section 5102(12) and related
regulations, court and administrative decisions.

1441

21
Section 387.06
Permit Registration For Use and/or Storage Required; Fee
(a) Permits for Explosives and
Pyrotechnic Materials. A person
shall not store, possess, use, sell,
give away, or otherwise dispose of,
any explosive, including without
limitation,
pyrotechnic
material,
consumer or display fireworks, as
defined in this chapter, without first
obtaining a written permit from the
City Fire Chief. This division is not
applicable to the use, possession, or
control of less than fifteen pounds
of smokeless powder, 50 pounds or
less of black powder, or less than
1,000 pounds shipping weight of
small arms ammunition, except as
required under division (c) of Section 387.04 of this Chapter. This division does not apply to a transporter
of explosives on highways, railways, or waterways. For purposes of
this section, the term “storage” does
not include “storage incidental to
transportation” when defined as preempted by 49 U.S.C. Section 5125 or
related
regulations
by
federal
administrative
determinations
or
court opinions. The fee for any permit required by this section shall be
$75.00.
(b) Permits for Lasers. A person
shall not use any Class III or IV
laser in front of a proximate audience without first obtaining a separate permit from the Fire Chief. The
fee for laser permits shall be $75.00.
(c) Permits for Flame Effects. A
permit must be obtained from the
City of Cleveland Fire Prevention
Bureau for the use of all indoor and
outdoor flame effects before an
audience.
The
permit
must
be
obtained at least ten business days
in advance of the production, exhibition, demonstration, or simulation
using the flame effects. Failure to
submit the permit application prior
to ten business days in advance of
the production, or failure to comply
with the requirements of NFPA
Standard 160 listed in Rule 1301:7-744 of the Ohio Administrative Code
may result in denial or revocation
of the permit. The fee for a permit
for flame effects shall be $75.00.
(d) Permits for Dangerous Ordnance. Each person handling explosives in conjunction with a blasting
operation shall obtain a dangerous
ordnance permit. The permit shall
expire on the date specified on it.
All permits expire no later than one
year from the date of issuance. The
City Fire Marshal or the City Fire
Marshal’s designee may issue a temporary permit for the casual use of
explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and it
shall expire within 30 days of its
issuance. The cost of a permit shall
be $75.00 under this section. A person must not perform blasting without possession of a dangerous ordnance permit under this section.
Every person involved in the blasting operation that will handle or
use the explosive shall be listed on
a separate dangerous ordnance permit application.
(e) Applications for each permit
required by this section shall be
made to the City Fire Chief in the
form and detail as the Chief prescribes. The Chief may require a
separate permit for use of explo-

22
sives and a separate permit for storage of explosives from each applicant. Each permit granted by the
Chief shall be for the period of time
as the Chief may determine, but not
to exceed one year. The permit
must, at all times, be subject to
inspection by any officer of the Fire
and/or Police Divisions. In addition
to the permit fees, the Division of
Fire may charge the person obtaining a permit under this section the
actual cost to the City of providing
plan review, inspection and oversight services by Division of Fire
officials. The costs may include,
without limitation, the actual cost to
the City of paying overtime wages
to fire officials.
(f) All permit applications that
are covered by this section shall be
submitted to the City Fire Chief
with accurate information and within a reasonable time frame to
accommodate the handling and processing of the permit applications.
All permit applications containing
complete information, as required by
this chapter, must be delivered to
the Division of Fire no later than 10
business days before the date the
permit is needed by the applicant,
or by an earlier date, as needed, for
the Division to make arrangements
to observe all areas where materials
subject to the permit are to be used
or stored.
Section 387.07 Use/Storage Permit
Application and Issuance
On receipt of any application for
a permit submitted under Section
387.06 and the required fee, the City
Fire Chief must make or cause to
be made an investigation to determine if all applicable conditions of
this chapter are fulfilled. If it is
found that the application is complete and the fee has been paid, and
that the applicable conditions of this
chapter are or will, as required, be
fulfilled, the permit shall be issued.
When the Fire Chief determines
that the information in a permit
application is not complete or well
defined, the Chief or the Chief’s
designee may elect to request further or more complete information
from the permit applicant or others
associated with the permit process.
This may include, but is not limited
to, information regarding the knowledge, expertise and experience of
individuals, as that information is
applicable to the referenced standards and rules adopted in this
chapter. Further information may be
requested by the Division of Fire in
the form of oral or written questions. The overall evaluation of
whether the permit will be issued
must be determined by the City Fire
Chief based on the Chief’s determination of whether the responses are
complete and all applicable conditions of this chapter will be fulfilled.
Section 387.08 Use/Storage Permit
Application Contents
(a) Generally. Every permit required by Section 387.06 must contain the name of the responsible person to whom the permit is to be
issued, a description of the place or
building and part of a building or
premises that the permit is being
applied for, the signature of the

The City Record
applicant, and all other particulars
that may be required as necessary
and proper by the City Fire Chief.
(b) Pyrotechnic permits. Prior to
issuance of a permit pertaining to
the use of pyrotechnics within the
boundaries of the City, the permit
applicant must develop a plan that,
at a minimum, contains information
consistent with applicable laws and
regulations including, without limitation, Rule 1301:7-7-31 of the Ohio
Administrative Code or its successor
regulation(s), plus additional or
more
restrictive
information
as
determined to be pertinent by the
City Fire Chief. Pyrotechnic permits
(including fireworks) must include
at a minimum:
(1) The name of the person,
group, or organization sponsoring
the production;
(2) The date and time of day of
the production;
(3) The exact location of the production;
(4) The name of the exhibitor
and/or operator actually in charge
of creating the pyrotechnic special
effect;
(5) The number, names, and ages
of all assistants who will be present;
(6) The qualifications of the
exhibitors and/or operators;
(7)
The
experience
of
the
exhibitor and/or operator in using
pyrotechnics;
(8) Proof of a valid exhibitor
license issued by the Division of
State Fire Marshal;
(9) Evidence of the permit holder’s insurance carrier or financial
responsibility under Section 387.16 of
this chapter;
(10) The number and types of
pyrotechnic devices and materials to
be used, including the sequence in
which the materials will be fired,
for example, the performance times
of the exhibit such as the opening,
finale, etc., the exhibitor’s experience with the devices and effects,
and a definition of the general
responsibilities of assistants;
(11) A diagram of the grounds or
facilities where the production will
be held. The diagram must show the
point at which the pyrotechnic
devices are to be fired from, the fallout radius for each pyrotechnic
device used in the performance, and
the lines behind which the audience
shall be restrained;
(12) The point of on-site assembly
of pyrotechnic devices, and in the
case of outdoor displays, the manner
in which mortars are installed and
secured (for example, in drums,
boxes, racks, buried, troughs, etc.);
(13) The manner and place of
storage of the pyrotechnic materials
and devices;
(14) The manufacturer of the
material to be used;
(15) A Material Safety Data Sheet
(MSDS) for the effects to be used;
(16) Certifications that the set,
scenery, and rigging materials are
treated
with
appropriate
flame
retardant;
(17) The location and rating of all
fire extinguishers;
(18) Contingency plans that will,
at no cost to the City, detail the
method that will be used to return
the site of the pyrotechnic display
to the condition it was prior to the
performance, (for example, include

1442

August 15, 2007
street cleaning, debris removal, etc.,
as necessary);
(19) The operator shall be responsible for operations, storage, and
use, of explosives, pyrotechnics, and
special effects as covered by this
chapter, including all safety issues
related to the adopted rules and
standards of this chapter. In events
where the operator and the exhibitor are the same person, that
person must assume the responsibilities of both positions.
(20) Applications for all permits
for the use or storage of pyrotechnics or the use of lasers or flame
effects, will be made to the City
Fire Chief by the party who is providing the liability insurance for the
event, and/or the Ohio licensed
exhibitor in charge of the display,
as considered appropriate by the
Fire Chief. The applicant must provide proof of insurance under Section 387.16 prior to permit issuance.
(c) The operator/exhibitor must
have the original permit in their
possession for inspection purposes
by the Fire official. All information
required in this chapter must be
maintained on the premises.
(d) The City Fire Chief, prior to
the
event,
must
approve
the
issuance of the permit before any
pyrotechnic effects are added to a
performance, or the firing or the firing location of any pyrotechnic
effects are altered.
(e) All laser displays must require
a separate permit and an overall
effects plan before issuance of a
permit unless otherwise approved by
the Fire Chief. This plan must
include:
(1) the scope and use of the laser;
(2) the classification of the laser
(for example, Class III-IV);
(3) the qualifications of the laser
safety officer (LSO);
(4) the times that the laser will
be used;
(5) a diagram of placement of
mirrors or other materials that may
produce hazardous specular reflections and their termination points;
(6) audience proximity, including
distances from the beams to the
audience;
(7) FDA variance number and a
copy of the docket, as well as, any
applicable attachments.
(8) safety factors and any other
information required by the Fire
Chief. Safety factors include placement of fire extinguishers, appropriate display of warning labels and
signs, ratings of fire extinguishers
and stand-by safety personnel. All
laser usage must be documented
that it is in conformity with the
safety requirements of ANSI Z136,
NFPA 115, and 21 C.F.R. Chapter I
Part 1040. The laser safety officer
or operator must sign applications
for laser permits.
(d) Flame effects. Before the performance of any production, the permit applicant must submit a plan
for the use of flame effects to the
City of Cleveland Fire Prevention
Bureau. The plan must be made in
writing or other form that is acceptable to the City Fire Marshal and
must demonstrate compliance with
NFPA Standard 160 listed in Rule
1301:7-7-44 of the Ohio Administrative Code. The plan must include,

August 15, 2007
but is not limited to include the following:
(1) The name of the person,
group, or organization sponsoring
the production;
(2) The date and time of day of
the production;
(3) The exact location of the production;
(4) The name of the flame effect
exhibitor and proof of a valid flame
effect exhibitor license issued by
the Fire Marshal;
(5) The number, names, and ages
of all assistants that will be present;
(6) The qualifications and experience of the flame effect exhibitor;
(7) The flame effect classification
and design criteria in accordance
with NFPA 160 listed in Rule 1301:77-44 of the Ohio Administrative
Code;
(8) A diagram of the site indicating the location of all flame effect
devices, the areas affected by each
device, location of the audience and
separation
distances,
means
of
egress, and information on all fuels
and ventilation for each effect;
(9) A narrative description of the
flame effect, controls, and control
sequences of all devices and emergency response procedures;
(10) A valid Material Safety Data
Sheet (MSDS) for each fuel utilized;
(11) Documentation that the set,
scenery, and rigging materials are
treated with the appropriate flame
retardant.
(12) After a permit has been
granted, the person who obtained
the permit must keep the plan available at the site for safety inspectors
or other designated agents of each
authority having jurisdiction.
(13) A permit holder must not add
flame effects to any performance in
a different manner than described in
the plan submitted with the application for a permit unless the City
Bureau of Fire Prevention first
approves of it.
(e) It is the responsibility of the
party seeking the permit to comply
with all applicable federal, State or
City laws and regulations under the
permit. This includes, but is not
limited to, the requirements of the
Federal
Aviation
Administration
(FAA), Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives (BATFE),
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
(PUCO), and State of Ohio.
(f) The operator is responsible for
operations, storage, and use of
explosives, including pyrotechnics
and special effects as covered by
this chapter, including all safety
issues related to the adopted rules
and standards of this chapter. In
events where the operator and the
exhibitor are the same person, that
person must assume the responsibilities of both positions.
(g) The exhibitor must ensure
that all rules and standards governing the use of explosives including pyrotechnics and special effects,
are being maintained to the current
standards and rules adopted in this
chapter, demonstrate compliance to
the City Fire Chief or the Fire
Chief’s designee. It is the responsibility of the exhibitor, to the best of
their
professional
judgment,
to
demonstrate to the City Fire Chief
or the Fire Chief’s designee that all

The City Record
aspects of the performance are
being performed in a manner consistent with good work practices, as
it applies to this chapter. In events
where the exhibitor and operator is
the same person, that person must
assume the responsibilities of both
positions.
Section 387.09 Permit Revocation;
Ceasing Operations
(a) Any permit granted, may be
revoked by the City Fire Chief and
automatically becomes void if any
of the conditions on which it was
granted are violated.
(b) If the permit holder fails to
ensure the restoration of the site of
a display to a condition free of
debris, equipment, and other material from the display, the City may
clean the site and charge the permit holder with the costs of the
cleanup.
(c) Ceasing operations. A fire
official may order a pyrotechnic
display, laser exhibition, the handling or use of explosives, or flame
effects, to be postponed or cancelled due to unsafe conditions or
operations, or inclement weather,
or unsafe spectator conditions, or
for any other condition in violation
of this fire code or of any regulation or standard adopted in this
chapter or of any other chapter of
the fire code. In such a case, operations must immediately cease.
Section 387.10 Permit for Receipt
or
Shipping
of
Explosives
and
Pyrotechnic Materials
(a) Except as provided in division (d) of this section, every person who receives or ships explosives including pyrotechnic materials within the City must obtain an
annual permit issued by the City
Fire Chief for that receipt or shipment of explosives. This division
applies to any fixed facility and
land-based
operation,
person
or
entity that receives or ships explosives by motor vehicle, railway, or
other
mode
of
transportation,
including,
without
limitation,
explosive
interchange
lots
and
explosive motor vehicle facilities,
terminals, and intermodal facilities. This division does not apply
to transporters of explosives while
in transportation on highways, railways, or waterways.
(b) The permit application must
be in writing and contain information describing the general storage
conditions of explosives shipped or
received, loaded, unloaded, or temporarily retained at the facility,
including separation and secondary
containment provisions, and must
specify the classification and maximum quantity of explosive materials that are expected to be shipped,
received, loaded, unloaded, or temporarily retained on an annual
basis at each location where the
operations are permitted.
The Fire Chief must decide either
to issue a permit or provide notice
to the applicant of deficiencies in
the application within 10 business
days of receipt of a completed permit application.
(c)
The
fee
for
any
permit
required under this section is $75.00

1443

23
unless the permit holder has also
obtained a permit under Section
387.06 of this chapter, in which case
only one $75.00 fee is required.
(d) The City Fire Chief may
waive the requirement for a permit
under this section when the receiver or shipper of explosives obtains
a permit under Section 387.06.
Section 387.11 Magazines for Explosives
(a) All magazine construction,
location, and other applicable guidelines must conform to the accepted
standards and laws incorporated
into this chapter, and to the permitting requirements of this chapter.
(b) All indoor magazines must be
on wheels and stored on the first
floor, within 10 feet of an exit
equipped with a ramped exit discharge, unless it is determined by
the City Fire Chief that public safety can be maintained without following this rule.
(c) Distance tables for explosives,
ammonium
nitrate
and
blasting
agents must be as indicated in the
accepted standards, regulations and
laws as referenced in Section 387.02.
Section 387.12
Storage Requirements for Small Arms Ammunition
(a) All storage requirements for
small arms ammunition must comply with the accepted standards and
laws incorporated into this chapter,
and to the permitting requirements
of this chapter.
(b) The provisions of this chapter
do not apply to the storage of less
than 1,000 pounds shipping weight
of small arms ammunition.
Section 387.13 Change of Distance
Requirements
(a) The American Table of Distances for Storage of Explosives or
Low Explosives as contained in
NFPA Standard 495 must be followed.
(b) Unbarricaded distances as referenced in division (c) of Section
387.11 must only be reduced to barricaded distances when the City
Fire
Chief
so
approves.
Where
added safety precautions have been
taken, or particularly favorable conditions exist, the Fire Chief or an
officer designated by the Fire Chief
may be permitted to decrease the
required separation distances as
considered appropriate, on demonstration that the hazard has been
reduced or the risk has been properly protected. Where unusual or
safety threatening conditions exist,
the Fire Chief or an officer designated by the Fire Chief may be permitted to increase the required separation distances considered appropriate.
(c) The separation distance of all
fireworks and/or pyrotechnic displays from the public may be
reduced where added safety precautions have been taken, or particularly favorable conditions exist indicating that the risk has been properly minimized as determined by the
Chief or the Fire Chief’s designee.
Where unusual or safety threatening conditions exist, distances can
be increased as determined to be
necessary by the City Fire Chief or

The City Record

24
the Fire Chief’s
sentative.

authorized

repre-

Section 387.14
Containers Required; Articles Not to Remain Outside
A person must not have or keep
explosives unless the explosives are
completely enclosed or encased in
tight metallic, wooden, or fiber containers,
and
must
be
kept
in
approved magazines. That provision
that the explosives must be kept in
approved magazines does not apply
while they are being transported or
used in the custody of a transporter,
awaiting shipment, or pending delivery to a consignee during the time
permitted by federal law. A person
having explosives in their possession or control must not under any
circumstances allow any grain or
particles to be or remain on the outside or about the containers in
which the explosives are kept. The
containers in which explosives are
kept shall be plainly marked in the
manner required by 49 C.F.R. Sections 173 and 178.
Section 387.15
Seizure and Confiscation of Explosives
If the City Fire Chief or the Fire
Chief’s
authorized
representative,
has probable cause to believe that
explosives are being manufactured,
sold, possessed, or used in violation
of this chapter, the Fire Chief or the
Fire Chief’s authorized representative may seize the explosives. Any
seizure of explosives must be made
under statutory and constitutional
provisions governing searches and
seizures.
This
section
does
not
affect the authority of a peace officer, as defined in Section 2935.01 of
the Revised Code, to make arrests
for violations of this chapter or to
seize explosives manufactured, sold,
possessed, or used in violation of
this chapter.
Section 387.16 Insurance
(a) The applicant for a permit
under the provisions of this chapter
shall take out and maintain during
the life of the permit such public liability and property damage insurance as will protect the public from
damages for personal injury, including accidental death, as well as
from property damage, that may
occur by operations under the permit, whether the operations are by
the permit holder or by anyone
directly or indirectly employed by
the permit holder.
(b) Except as otherwise stated in
this chapter, the policy of insurance
for all permits under this chapter
shall be in an amount not less than
$1 million for injuries and property
damage, including accidental death
of any one person, and a general
aggregate limit in an amount not
less than $5 million. The insurance
required can be comprised of a combination of primary insurance and
excess insurance. However, insurance for the use, handling, storage,
receipt and shipment of explosives
for permitted pyrotechnical displays
and small arms ammunition must be
in an amount not less than $1 million for injuries, including accidental death to any one person, and a

general
aggregate
limit
in
an
amount not less than $3 million on
account of one accident, and property damage insurance in an amount
not less than $1 million. Each policy of insurance shall name the City
of
Cleveland
as
an
additional
insured, and the Certificate of Insurance required in this section in division (c) must designate that the
City of Cleveland is an additional
insured.
(c) A certificate of insurance
reviewed by the Director of Law
must be provided to the Fire Chief
prior to the issuance of a permit.
The certificate of insurance must
clearly state that the insurer will
give written notice to the City at
least 10 days prior to the expiration
date of the described policies. A
copy of the certificate of insurance
may be forwarded and utilized for
the permit application review process, but an original copy must be
forwarded to the Division of Fire
prior to the issuance of the actual
permit.
Section 387.17 Severability
If any portion of this chapter, or
any section or part of a section is
declared by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the declaration must be limited solely to that
portion, section, or part of a section
that was directly involved in the
controversy before the court on
which judgment was rendered and
may not affect or impair the validity of the remainder of the chapter.
Section 387.18
Inspections and
Investigations
Every person who receives a permit under this chapter and every
person who receives or ships explosives including pyrotechnic materials that are located within the
City, must allow the City Fire
Chief, or the Fire Chief’s duly
authorized representative, permission to enter, at any time, the
place,
building,
or
vehicle
described in the permit. In addition,
they must allow the Fire Chief or
the Fire Chief’s duly authorized
representative permission to examine the facility that is permitted or
that receives or ships the explosives, including the building and
the contents of the building, and
must maintain the space or building in a safe and proper manner
as directed by the Chief.
Section 387.99
Penalty and Enforcement
(a) Any person who violates any
provision of this chapter other than
those which are felonies under state
law, is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree. Each violation must
be treated separately. When a violation is a continuing one, each day
of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
(b) This chapter may be enforced
by the City in a criminal proceeding without issuing a prior notice
of violation other than the notice
required under the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure. This chapter
may
also
be
enforced
through
orders issued by the Fire Chief or
his or her designee, and any such

1444

August 15, 2007
order may provide a time period in
which compliance is required and a
date by which compliance is required. Except in an emergency,
any order issued may be appealed
to the Cleveland Board of Building
Standards and Building Appeals
within 30 days after issuance of
the order. The filing of an appeal
shall not constitute an automatic
stay of the order. The City may
also bring a civil collection and/or
civil
penalty
and/or
injunction
action to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances are supplemented by enacting new Sections 394.01 to 394.15 and
394.99 to read as follows:
Chapter 394
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL
TRANSPORTATION
Section 394.01 Purpose
The purpose and intent of this
chapter is to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare from the
potential hazards of fire, explosion,
and exposure to toxic substances
that accompany a hazardous materials incident by regulating the
transportation of hazardous substances or material in and through
the City of Cleveland, and the development and maintenance of the
capability for emergency response.
Section 394.02 Scope
This chapter applies to all substances or materials defined as hazardous materials in this chapter that
are transported in and through the
City of Cleveland. This chapter
applies, in addition to all other sections of this Fire Prevention Code,
all other ordinances of the City
regarding hazardous substances or
materials, and any rules or regulations of other City departments,
boards, or commissions that apply.
Section 394.03 Definitions
(a) “City” means City of Cleveland
unless specifically defined otherwise.
(b) “Fixed Facility” means any
building or property where materials or articles are received, shipped,
stored, transferred, picked up or
delivered, and includes without limitation, a terminal, storage facility,
explosives interchange lot, explosives motor vehicle terminal, and
intermodal facility.
(c) “Hazardous material” means a
substance or material defined as
hazardous under Title 49 of the
Code
of
Federal
Regulations
(C.F.R.) and includes explosives
regulated under Chapter 387 of these
Codified Ordinances.
(d) “Highway” means any interstate, public street, public alley,
public road or other public thoroughfare.
(e) “Intermodal facilities” means
any designated area where truck
trailers,
storage
containers,
and
other vehicles used in the transportation of hazardous materials are
received, shipped, loaded onto, unloaded from, or stored in connection
with two or more modes of transportation.

August 15, 2007
(f) “Interstate highways” means
those highways in the City of Cleveland designated as Interstates 71, 77,
90, 176, 480, and 490.
(g) “Person” means an individual,
trustee, receiver, association, corporation,
business,
partnership,
or
other legal entity or group of individuals.
(h) “Terminal” means a fixed
facility used by carriers or transporters for the receipt, shipment,
transfer, storage, pick-up or delivery
of, articles or materials.
(i) “Transporter” means a person
engaged in the transport, movement,
or carrying of hazardous material
on highways.
(j) “Vehicles” means any conveyance that is, or was, at one time
operated by mechanical power on a
highway and includes any trailer or
storage container incidental to such
a vehicle whether attached or not to
a vehicle.
Section 394.04
Adoption and Incorporation of Federal Regulations
(a) To ensure the application of
their requirements to vehicles within the City limits, the following
laws and regulations and their successor regulations are adopted and
incorporated into this code as such
laws and regulations exist at the
time of passage of this chapter or
as they may be amended: Title 49
C.F.R. Subchapter C-Hazardous Materials Regulations; Part 171-General Information, regulations, and
definitions;
Part
172-Hazardous
materials table, special provisions,
hazardous
materials
communications, emergency response information, and training requirements;
Part 173-Shippers-general requirements for shipments and packagings; Part 174-Carriage by rail;
Part 175-Carriage by aircraft; Part
176-Carriage by vessel; Part 177Carriage by public highway; Part
178-Specifications for packagings;
Part 179-Specifications for tank
cars; Part 180-Continuing qualification and maintenance of packagings; and Part 397-Transportation
of Hazardous Materials, Driving,
and Parking Rules. Any violation
of these federal rules and regulations within the City limits is a
violation of this chapter.
(b) The requirements of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations 49 C.F.R. Parts 390 through 399
are adopted and incorporated. Any
violation of those federal rules and
regulations within the City limits is
a violation of this chapter.
(c) When any provision of this
chapter conflicts with the regulations adopted in divisions (a) or (b)
above, or any other provision of
these Codified Ordinances, the provision which establishes the stricter
standard for the promotion and protection of the safety and welfare of
the public must prevail. This division does not apply if the local regulation contains the stricter standard and compliance with both the
local regulation and a federal regulation adopted in division (a) or (b)
above is not possible and the local
regulation is preempted by federal
law. This division also does not
apply if the local regulation as

The City Record
applied or enforced is an obstacle to
accomplishing and carrying out the
federal rules and regulations adopted in division (a) or (b) above and
is preempted by federal law. Nothing in this provision may compromise the City’s right to apply for
and receive a waiver of preemption
under 49 C.F.R. Section 107.215.
Section 394.05
Hazardous Material
Subject to Regulation
(a) Transportation in commerce
within the City of Cleveland of hazardous materials that is required to
be placarded by 49 C.F.R. Part 172,
Subpart F-Placarding, or any successor regulation, must be subject to
the requirements of this chapter. If
the
hazardous
materials
are
required to be placarded by 49
C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F-Placarding, but are not, the transportation
in commerce within the City of
Cleveland of the hazardous materials is still subject to regulation
under this Chapter.
(b) Transportation in commerce
within the City of Cleveland of hazardous materials that are exempt,
under Section 4921.02(A)(2) of the
Revised Code from the requirements of Chapter 4921 of the
Revised Code, are subject to the
requirements of Section 387.10 of
these Codified Ordinances, and to
the requirements of this chapter to
the extent that labeling is required
by 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart E,
and shipping papers are required
by 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart C,
for the transportation of hazardous
materials.
Section 394.06 Restrictions on the
Use of City Streets for the Transportation of Hazardous Materials
The following provisions must be
complied with for the purpose of
applying 49 C.F.R. Section 397.3
adopted in Section 394.04 of this
Chapter:
(a) The use of City streets (other
than interstate highways) for the
transportation of materials specified
in Section 394.05 of this Chapter is
prohibited where there is neither a
point
of
origin
nor
destination
(delivery point) within the City.
This division does not apply where
the point of origin or destination
(delivery point) is within one mile
of the City limits or where the use
of City streets provides the safest
and most direct route and the shortest distance of travel from an interstate highway to the point of origin
or destination, as determined by the
City Fire Chief or his or her
designee.
(b) The transportation of materials specified in Section 394.05 of this
Chapter is prohibited on City streets
in the Downtown Area, as defined
in division (c) of this section,
between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. daily,
except Saturdays and Sundays.
(c)
The
Downtown
Area
is
defined as the area, not including
the interstate highways, bounded by
Lake Erie on the north, the Cuyahoga River on the west, Interstate
71 and the Inner Belt on the south
and east, and Interstate 90/Route 2
on the northeast to and including

1445

25
the eastern boundary of Burke
Lakefront Airport.
(d) Transporters of hazardous
materials specified in Section 394.05
of this Chapter, where there is a
point of origin or destination (delivery point) in the City or within one
mile of the City limits, or where the
use of City streets provides the
safest and most direct route and the
shortest distance of travel from an
interstate highway to the point of
origin or destination must use interstate
highways
and
designated
truck routes to a point as close as
possible to the destination to reach
their point of pickup or delivery,
unless otherwise approved by the
City Fire Chief. Only the Fire Chief
or the Fire Chief’s designee may
determine that the use of City
streets provides the safest and most
direct route and the shortest distance of travel from an interstate
highway to the point of origin or
destination.
(e) The Fire Chief may grant permission in writing to operate in
exception to division (b) of Section
394.06 of this Chapter only where
the Fire Chief has determined that
the following criteria are met:
(1) Need is shown, that is, the
applicant must show that delivery
or pick-up of the hazardous material identified in Section 394.05 of this
Chapter can be practicably made
only during the time period identified in division (b) of Section 394.06
of this Chapter; and
(2) Transportation of the hazardous material is in the public
interest.
(f) Waivers granted under division (e) of this section are per calendar year. A person may obtain a
waiver beyond the period of one
year only by reapplying for, and
meeting the criteria described in
divisions (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this
section, each calendar year that a
waiver is applied for.
Section 394.07
Regulations Concerning the Operation of Motor
Vehicles Carrying Hazardous Material(s); Parking Prohibited
(a) Vehicles transporting hazardous materials, as specified in
Section 394.05 of this Chapter, must
comply with 49 C.F.R. Section 397.3
while operating within the City. If
a vehicle transporting hazardous
materials commits a moving traffic
violation, it is also a violation of
this chapter, subject to the penalty
established in Section 394.99 of this
Chapter, in addition to any other
penalty imposed for the violation.
(b) No vehicle containing hazardous materials as specified in Section 394.05 of this Chapter may be
parked on any City street at any
time, unless it is necessary for a
pick-up or delivery and is otherwise
permitted by law.
Section 394.08 Inspections and Investigations
(a) The City Fire Chief or the
Fire Chief’s authorized representative may inspect vehicles used in
the
transportation
of
hazardous
materials at random. The vehicles
must comply with all applicable

26
laws and regulations in this chapter.
(b) The City, through its inspectors or other authorized employees,
may enter and inspect premises at
reasonable times where hazardous
material or materials are stored,
transferred, loaded, packaged, shipped or received. This authorization
includes, without limitation, inspection of intermodal facilities and terminals as defined in Sections 387.01
and 394.03 of these Codified Ordinances. It also includes inspection
at any time of the vehicle of any
person who transports or offers for
transportation hazardous materials
subject to this chapter. Inspection,
under this section, may include
examination of any records or documents that relate to the transportation and the offering for transportation of hazardous materials
subject to this chapter.
Section 394.09 Reporting Requirements
Any incident or incidents involving hazardous materials occurring
within the City and required to be
reported by 49 C.F.R. Section 171.15
must be reported immediately upon
discovery by the operator of the
vehicle. In the event any incident or
incidents involving a release or
spillage
of
hazardous
materials
poses or may pose a threat of danger to health, safety or the environment,
the
incident
must
be
reported immediately on discovery
by a representative of a fixed facility as the term is defined in Sections
387.01 and 394.03 of these Codified
Ordinances. The reporting must be
made to the City of Cleveland’s
emergency operator by telephone.
The City Fire Chief must file a
standing request with the Research
and Special Programs Administration of the Department of Transportation, or its successor agency,
for routine mailing to the Division
of Fire of a copy of the written
report required by 49 C.F.R. Section
171.16.
Section 394.10 Suspension of Operations
The City Fire Chief or Police
Chief may temporarily reroute or
suspend the operation of some or all
vehicles carrying hazardous materials within the City, without notice,
whenever
road,
weather,
traffic,
emergency, or other circumstances
warrant that action. All vehicles
carrying hazardous materials must
comply with any rerouting, suspension of operation, or other order
issued under this section.
Section 394.11 Suspension of Regulations
The City Fire Chief or Police
Chief may suspend these regulations
in whole or in part, when circumstances require the suspension to
maintain the public safety.
Section 394.12 Liability/Response
Costs
(a) In addition to the criminal
penalty provided in Section 394.99 of
this Chapter, in the event of a hazardous materials incident, as described in 49 C.F.R. Section 171.15,

The City Record
or 49 C.F.R. Section 171.16, or in the
event of the declaration of a nuisance under this chapter, requiring
the response of the Division of Fire
or the Division of Police, or the
Division of Emergency Medical Service, or other City employees or
agents to control that incident, the
transporter, the owner and/or lessee
of the vehicle, the owner and/or
source of the hazardous materials,
and the operator of the vehicle must
be jointly and severally liable to the
City for the payment of all actual
costs and expenses incurred in, and
related to the incident. These costs
and expenses must include the following: employee recall and overtime wages; equipment; supplies;
uniforms; and materials and expenses necessary for the control and
clean-up activities required through
final regulatory closure of the incident. The amount of the costs and
expenses must be determined by the
City and must be billed to those
liable, as described in this section.
This responsibility is not conditioned
on
evidence
of
purpose,
knowledge, recklessness, or negligence on the part of the transporter,
or other party liable under this section.
(b) All billing for reimbursement
of City costs described in division
(a) of this section may be appealed
to the Board of Zoning Appeals
within 30 days after receipt of the
billing. The Board has jurisdiction
to either affirm, reverse, or modify
the billing. If the City does not
receive reimbursement within 15
days after a decision of affirmation
or modification by the Board, the
City may institute a court action to
collect or recover the costs.
Section 394.13
Nuisance Abatement
The Fire Chief may consider any
quantity of hazardous material or
materials that has been discharged
during transportation to be a nuisance, if it may affect or endanger
the life, health, or senses of the
inhabitants of the City. The Fire
Chief is authorized to, and may
order, the owner, operator, source, or
party in control of any vehicle or
hazardous material to abate any
nuisance in the manner required in
Chapter 203 “Nuisance Abatement”
(Health Code) or Chapter “Enforcement and General Provisions” (Fire
Prevention Code) of these Codified
Ordinances.” An owner, operator,
source, or party in control must comply with the order immediately, or
within the time required in the
order if a specific compliance date
is provided. The City may take
action to abate the nuisance and
charge the owner, lessee, operator,
or person most recently in control of
the vehicle and/or the hazardous
material or hazardous materials for
the City’s cost of abatement.
Section 394.14
Abandoned Vehicles; Nuisance
Any vehicle containing hazardous
material, as specified in Section
394.05 of this Chapter, which is
abandoned, as defined in Section
451.25 of these Codified Ordinances,
or subject to being impounded as
provided in Chapter 405 of these

1446

August 15, 2007
Codified Ordinances, is declared a
nuisance. The Fire Chief may order
the abatement of the nuisance as
described in Section 394.13 of this
Chapter, and the failure to comply
with the order is a violation of this
chapter. The City may take action
to abate the nuisance and charge
the owner, lessee, operator, or person most recently in control of the
vehicle for the City’s costs of abatement.
Section 394.15 Severability
If any portion of this chapter, or
any section or part of a section is
declared by a court or a governmental agency of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or preempted,
such declaration must be limited
solely to that portion, section, or
part of a section that was directly
involved in the controversy before
the court or agency on which judgment was rendered. That declaration may not affect or impair the
validity of the remainder of the section or chapter.
Section 394.99
Penalty and Enforcement
(a) Any person who violates Sections 394.07, 394.10, or 394.13 of this
Chapter, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. The City may issue a
citation under Rule 4.1 of the Ohio
Rules of Criminal Procedure to
enforce these ordinances.
(b) Any person who violates any
provision of this chapter other than
those listed in division (a) above or
those which are felonies under state
law is considered guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(c) Each violation must be treated separately. When a violation is a
continuing one, each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
(d) This chapter may be enforced
by the City in a criminal proceeding, without providing a prior notice
of violation other than the notice
required under the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure. This chapter
may also be enforced through orders
issued by the City Fire Chief or his
or her designee, and any order may
provide a time in which compliance
is required. Any order issued may be
appealed to the City Board of Zoning Appeals no later than 30 days
after the date the order was issued.
The filing of an appeal shall not
constitute an automatic stay of the
order. Nothing in the section limits
the City’s ability to bring a civil
action for injunctive relief and
apply for an adequate legal or equitable remedy. The City may also
bring a civil injunction or collection
action to enforce any provision of
this chapter.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1254-07.
By Council Members Coats and
Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 605.121 relating to
engine compression or “jake” braking systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland are
supplemented by enacting new Section 605.121 to read as follows:
Section 605.121
Engine compression braking prohibited
(a) It shall be unlawful for any
driver of any vehicle within Cleveland city limits to use or operate or
cause to be used or operated any
mechanical device designed to aid
in braking or deceleration of his or
her vehicle which results in the creation of a loud, explosive noise,
known as an engine compression
brake and commonly referred to as
a “jake brake”.
(b) For the purpose of this subdivision an “engine compression
brake” is any device that uses the
engine and transmission to impede
the forward motion of the motor
vehicle by the compression of the
engine.
(c) Subsection (a) hereof shall not
apply to the application of effectively muffled engine compression
brakes where necessary for the protection of persons and property,
which cannot be avoided by the
application of an alternative braking system.
(d) Subsection (a) hereof shall
not apply to noise caused by the
application of engine compression
brakes created by emergency vehicles for emergency purposes.
(e) Whoever violates this section
is guilty of engine compression
breaking, a minor misdemeanor, and
shall be fined at least seventy-five
dollars ($75.00), which fine shall not
be suspended, waived or otherwise
reduced below that amount. Whoever violates this section upon a subsequent offence is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and
shall be fined at least one hundred
dollars ($100.00), which fine shall
not be suspended, waived, or otherwise reduced below that amount.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1255-07.
By Council Members Reed, Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to employ a
management firms to provide managerial services for the daily operations of the roller skating rink
located
within
Zelma
Watson
George Recreation Center and the
concession services of the center,
for a period of five years with an
option to renew for five one-year
terms.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts a management firm for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to provide managerial services for the
daily operations of the roller skating rink located within Zelma Watson George Recreation Center and
the concession services of the center, for a period of five years with
an option to renew for five one-year
terms, exercisable by the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties.
The selection of the management
firm for the services shall be made
by the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified management firms
available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract authorized shall be paid from
Fund No. 01-700401-638000. All profits
received shall be deposited into
Fund No. 10 SF 124 and shall be
used to pay the cost of future capital improvements and operating expenses at the Zelma Watson George
Recreation Center, which are not the
obligation of the manager under the
Agreement. Request No. 164532.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1257-07.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to execute a
deed of easement granting to the
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District certain easement rights in
property located in the Forest Hills
Parkway area and declaring the
easement rights granted are not
needed for public use.
Whereas, the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (“NEORSD”)
requested the Director of Parks,

1447

27
Recreation and Properties to convey
certain easement rights in property
located in the Forest Hills Parkway
area, and known as Permanent Parcel Nos. 111-01-003, 111-01-004, and
672-02-114; and
Whereas, the NEORSD requires
the easement rights for construction
and maintenance of the Dugway
East Interceptor Relief Sewer Project (“Sewer Project”); and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are not needed for public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that an easement interest in
the following described properties is
not needed for public use:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF PERMANENT SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA2P
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 356 and
being a permanent easement across
part of the property deeded to the
City of Cleveland of record in Volume 668 Page 580, Volume 1265
Pages 319, 322, and 326, Volume 3920
Page 108 of the Cuyahoga County
Deed Records all being a part of
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel (PPN) No. 111-01-003,
said
permanent
easement
being
more particularly described as follows:
Commencing for reference at the
intersection of the south line of said
original East Cleveland Township
Lot No. 356 (being also the center
line of Sellers Avenue produced
westwardly) and the west line of
East 112th Street;
Thence North 00 degrees 35 minutes 44 seconds West with the westerly line of said East 112th Street
49.52 feet to a point;
Thence South 89 degrees 24 minutes 16 seconds West 47.41 feet to a
point, being the true place of beginning of the herein described permanent sewer easement;
Thence continuing on the previous
course South 89 degrees 24 minutes
16 seconds West 30.25 feet to a
point;
Thence North 07 degrees 17 minutes 20 seconds East 429.81 feet to
a point;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds East 358.96 feet to
a point;
Thence North 06 degrees 28 minutes 47 seconds East 18.21 feet to a
point;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 341.52 feet to
a point;
Thence South 48 degrees 38 minutes 31 seconds West 10.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 41 degrees 26 minutes 21 seconds West 20.00 feet to a
point;

28
Thence South 48 degrees 39 minutes 55 seconds West 151.69 feet to
a point;
Thence North 41 degrees 20 minutes 05 seconds West 49.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 48 degrees 39 minutes 55 seconds East 151.69 feet to
a point;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 63.08 feet to a
point;
Thence South 21 degrees 03 minutes 31 seconds West 45.96 feet to a
point;
Thence North 68 degrees 56 minutes 29 seconds West 30.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 21 degrees 03 minutes 31 seconds East 72.91 feet to a
point;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 64.17 feet to a
point;
Thence North 31 degrees 08 minutes 13 seconds West 76.26 feet to a
point in the southeasterly right-ofway line of the CSX R.R.;
Thence North 58 degrees 40 minutes 42 seconds East with the said
CSX R.R. right-of-way 30.00 feet to
a point;
Thence South 31 degrees 08 minutes 13 seconds East 73.67 feet to a
point;
Thence South 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds East 45.81 feet to a
point;
Thence North 21 degrees 03 minutes 31 seconds East 16.17 feet to a
point;
Thence South 68 degrees 56 minutes 29 seconds East 30.00 feet to a
point;
Thence South 21 degrees 03 minutes 31 seconds West 31.85 feet to a
point;
Thence South 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds East 500.29 feet to
a point;
Thence South 47 degrees 55 minutes 28 seconds East 337.83 feet to
a point;
Thence North 42 degrees 04 minutes 32 seconds East 5.00 feet to a
point;
Thence South 47 degrees 55 minutes 28 seconds East 35.30 feet to a
point;
Thence South 42 degrees 04 minutes 32 seconds West 40.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 47 degrees 55 minutes 28 seconds West 35.30 feet to a
point;
Thence North 42 degrees 04 minutes 32 seconds East 5.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 47 degrees 55 minutes 28 seconds West 306.59 feet to
a point;
Thence South 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 363.34 feet to
a point;
Thence South 07 degrees 17 minutes 40 seconds West 416.47 feet to
the place of beginning, containing
66,540.27 square feet, more or less as
determined by J. M. Linn, Ohio Registered Professional Surveyor No.
6638 from record deed and plat information, being subject to all legal
roads, highways, and easements of
record. The bearings used in this
description are assumed and should
be used for angular information
only.

The City Record
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF TEMPORARY SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA2T
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 356 and being
a temporary easement across part of
the property deeded to the City of
Cleveland of record in Volume 668
Page 580, Volume 1265 Pages 319,
322, and 326, Volume 3920 Page 108
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Deed
Records all being a part of Cuyahoga
County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel
(PPN) No. 111-01-003, said temporary
easement being more particularly
described as follows:
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART ONE:
Commencing for reference at the
intersection of the south line of said
original East Cleveland Township
Lot No. 356 (being also the center
line of Sellers Avenue produced
westwardly) and the west line of
East 112th Street;
Thence North 00 degrees 35 minutes 44 seconds West with the westerly line of said East 112th Street
49.52 feet to a point;
Thence South 89 degrees 24 minutes 16 seconds West 37.38 feet to a
point, being the true place of beginning of the herein described temporary sewer easement;
Thence continuing on the previous
course South 89 degrees 24 minutes
16 seconds West 10.04 feet to a
point;
Thence North 07 degrees 17 minutes 40 seconds East 416.47 feet to
a point;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds East 363.34 feet to
a point;
Thence South 47 degrees 55 minutes 28 seconds East 306.59 feet to
a point;
Thence South 42 degrees 04 minutes 32 seconds West 5.00 feet to a
point;
Thence South 47 degrees 55 minutes 28 seconds East 35.30 feet to a
point;
Thence North 42 degrees 04 minutes 32 seconds East 40.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 47 degrees 55 minutes 28 seconds West 35.30 feet to a
point;
Thence South 42 degrees 04 minutes 32 seconds West 5.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 47 degrees 55 minutes 28 seconds West 337.83 feet to
a point;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 500.29 feet to
a point;
Thence North 21 degrees 03 minutes 31 seconds East 11.28 feet to a
point;
Thence South 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds East 215.33 feet to
a point;
Thence South 78 degrees 45 minutes 43 seconds East 143.62 feet to
a point;
Thence South 11 degrees 14 minutes 17 seconds West 109.82 feet to
a point;
Thence South 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds East 108.82 feet to
a point;

1448

August 15, 2007
Thence South 47 degrees 55 minutes 28 seconds East 327.25 feet to
a point;
Thence North 42 degrees 04 minutes 32 seconds East 5.00 feet to a
point;
Thence South 47 degrees 55 minutes 28 seconds East 55.30 feet to a
point;
Thence South 42 degrees 04 minutes 32 seconds West 60.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 47 degrees 55 minutes 28 seconds West 55.30 feet to a
point;
Thence North 42 degrees 04 minutes 32 seconds East 5.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 47 degrees 55 minutes 28 seconds West 286.46 feet to
a point;
Thence South 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 350.15 feet to
a point;
Thence South 07 degrees 17 minutes 20 seconds West 52.24 feet to a
point on the arc of a curve to the
left;
Thence with said arc deflecting to
the left with a radius of 166.32 feet,
a chord of 61.17 feet bearing South
00 degrees 35 minutes 34 seconds
East an arc length 61.52 feet to a
point on the arc of a curve to the
left;
Thence with said arc deflecting to
the left with a radius of 4813.39 feet,
a chord of 27.17 feet bearing South
00 degrees 09 minutes 56 seconds
East an arc length of 27.17 feet to
a point;
Thence South 07 degrees 17 minutes 20 seconds West 3.41 feet to a
point;
Thence South 07 degrees 18 minutes 36 seconds West 268.37 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement
Part
One,
containing
28,142.17 square feet, more or less.
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART TWO:
Commencing for reference at the
intersection of the south line of said
original East
Cleveland Township Lot No. 356
(being also the center line of Sellers Avenue produced westwardly)
and the west line of East 112th
Street;
Thence North 00 degrees 35 minutes 44 seconds West with the westerly line of said East 112th Street
49.52 feet to a point;
Thence South 89 degrees 24 minutes 16 seconds West 77.66 feet to a
point, being the true place of beginning of the herein described temporary sewer easement;
Thence South 89 degrees 24 minutes 16 seconds West 10.10 feet to a
point;
Thence North 07 degrees 17 minutes 20 seconds East 434.26 feet to
a point;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds East 358.88 feet to
a point;
Thence North 06 degrees 28 minutes 47 seconds East 10.63 feet to a
point;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 327.08 feet to
a point;
Thence South 48 degrees 38 minutes 31 seconds West 10.04 feet to a
point;
Thence North 41 degrees 20 minutes 05 seconds West 10.00 feet to a
point;

August 15, 2007
Thence South 48 degrees 39 minutes 55 seconds West 161.69 feet to
a point;
Thence North 41 degrees 20 minutes 05 seconds West 89.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 48 degrees 39 minutes 55 seconds East 161.69 feet to
a point;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 37.85 feet to a
point;
Thence North 21 degrees 03 minutes 31 seconds East 11.28 feet to a
point;
Thence South 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds East 63.08 feet to a
point;
Thence South 48 degrees 39 minutes 55 seconds West 151.69 feet to
a point;
Thence South 41 degrees 20 minutes 05 seconds East 49.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 48 degrees 39 minutes 55 seconds East 151.69 feet to
a point;
Thence South 41 degrees 20 minutes 05 seconds East 20.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 48 degrees 38 minutes 31 seconds East 10.04 feet to a
point;
Thence South 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds East 341.52 feet to
a point;
Thence South 06 degrees 28 minutes 47 seconds West 18.21 feet to a
point;
Thence South 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 358.96 feet to
a point;
Thence South 07 degrees 17 minutes 20 seconds West 429.81 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement
Part
Two,
containing
19,799.48 square feet, more or less.
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART THREE:
Commencing for reference at the
northernmost point of said Temporary Easement Parcel One as hereinbefore described;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 33.85 feet to
the true place of beginning of the
herein described temporary sewer
easement;
Thence South 21 degrees 03 minutes 31 seconds West 11.28 feet to a
point;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 45.81 feet to a
point;
Thence North 31 degrees 08 minutes 13 seconds West 73.67 feet to a
point in the southeasterly line of the
CSX Railroad;
Thence North 58 degrees 40 minutes 42 seconds East with the southeasterly line of the said CSX Railroad 30.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 31 degrees 08 minutes 13 seconds East 72.88 feet to a
point;
Thence South 58 degrees 51 minutes 47 seconds West 20.00 feet to a
point;
Thence South 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds East 39.69 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement Part Three, containing
2616.83 square feet, more or less.
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART FOUR:
Commencing for reference at the
northernmost point of said Tempo-

The City Record
rary Easement Parcel One as hereinbefore described;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 73.54 feet to a
point;
Thence North 31 degrees 08 minutes 13 seconds West 72.88 feet to a
point in the southeasterly right-ofway of the CSX Railroad;
Thence South 58 degrees 40 minutes 42 seconds West with the said
southeasterly right-of-way of the
CSX Railroad 40.00 feet to a point
being the true place of beginning of
Temporary Easement Parcel Four;
Thence South 31 degrees 08 minutes 13 seconds East 76.26 feet to a
point;
Thence South 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds East 64.17 feet to a
point;
Thence South 21 degrees 03 minutes 31 seconds West 11.28 feet to a
point;
Thence North 41 degrees 21 minutes 29 seconds West 70.29 feet to a
point;
Thence South 58 degrees 51 minutes 47 seconds West 20.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 31 degrees 08 minutes 18 seconds West 77.06 feet to a
point in the said southeasterly rightof-way of the CSX Railroad;
Thence North 58 degrees 40 minutes 42 seconds East with said
southeasterly right-of-way of the
CSX Railroad 30.00 feet to the place
of beginning of Temporary Easement Parcel Four, containing 2980.98
square feet, and containing 53,539.46
square feet total more or less in
Temporary Easement Parts One,
Two,
Three,
and
Four
herein
described, as determined by J. M.
Linn, Ohio Registered Professional
Surveyor No. 6638 from record deed
and plat information, being subject
to all legal roads, highways, and
easements of record. The bearings
used in this description are assumed
and should be used for angular
information only.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF PERMANENT SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA4P
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, the
State of Ohio, and the original
East Cleveland Township Lot No.
363 and being a permanent easement across part of the property
deeded to the City of Cleveland of
record in Volume 1266 Page 281
and Page 322 of the Cuyahoga
County Deed Records all being a
part of Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel (PPN) No.
111-01-003, said permanent easement
being
more
particularly
described as follows:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the westerly line of East
112th Street at it’s intersection with
the northerly line of Block “A” in
the Macoban Realty Company Subdivision as recorded in Volume 94
Page 2 of the Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence South 89 degrees 24 minutes 16 seconds West 60.18 feet to
the true place of beginning of the
permanent sewer easement herein
described;

1449

29
Thence South 21 degrees 59 minutes 17 seconds West 32.11 feet to a
point;
Thence South 18 degrees 55 minutes 22 seconds West 513.70 feet to
a point;
Thence South 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds East 172.17 feet to
a point in the southerly line of a
parcel conveyed to the City of Cleveland in Volume 1266 Page 281 of the
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence South 89 degrees 51 minutes 43 seconds West with said
southerly line of the parcel conveyed to the City of Cleveland in
Volume 1266 Page 281 of the Cuyahoga County Deed Records 31.52 feet
to a point;
Thence North 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds West 172.51 feet to
a point;
Thence North 18 degrees 55 minutes 22 seconds East 524.53 feet to
a point;
Thence North 21 degrees 59 minutes 17 seconds East 20.44 feet to a
point;
Thence North 89 degrees 24 minutes 16 seconds East 32.49 feet to
the place of beginning of the said
permanent sewer easement herein
described containing 24,114.32 square
feet, more or less, as determined by
J. M. Linn, Ohio Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6638 from
record deed and plat information,
being subject to all legal roads,
highways, and easements of record.
The bearings used in this description are assumed and should be
used for angular information only.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF TEMPORARY SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA4T
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 363 and
being a temporary easement across
part of the property deeded to the
City of Cleveland of record in Volume 1266 Page 281 and Page 322 of
the Cuyahoga County Deed Records
all being a part of Cuyahoga
County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel
(PPN) No. 111-01-003, said temporary
easement being more particularly
described as follows:
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART ONE:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the westerly line of East
112th Street at it’s intersection with
the northerly line of Block “A” in
the Macoban Realty Company Subdivision as recorded in Volume 94
Page 2 of the Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence South 89 degrees 24 minutes 16 seconds West 49.34 feet to
the true place of beginning of the
temporary sewer easement herein
described;
Thence South 21 degrees 59 minutes 17 seconds West 33.54 feet to a
point in the arc of a circle;
Thence deflecting to the left
along said arc 43.77 feet to a point,
said arc having a radius of 78.00
feet and a chord which bears South
20 degrees 24 minutes 19 seconds
West 43.20 feet;

30
Thence South 01 degrees 21 minutes 31 seconds West 8.08 feet to a
point;
Thence South 19 degrees 06 minutes 11 seconds West 223.54 feet to
a point in the arc of a circle;
Thence deflecting to the left
along said arc 113.46 feet to a point,
said arc having a radius of 408.44
feet and a chord which bears South
19 degrees 17 minutes 11 seconds
West 113.09 feet;
Thence South 18 degrees 55 minutes 12 seconds West 115.03 feet to
a point;
Thence South 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds East 172.06 feet to
a point;
Thence South 89 degrees 51 minutes 51 seconds West 10.51 feet to a
point;
Thence north 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds West 172.17 feet to
a point;
Thence North 18 degrees 55 minutes 22 seconds East 513.70 feet to
a point;
Thence North 21 degrees 59 minutes 17 seconds East 32.11 feet to a
point;
Thence North 89 degrees 26 minutes 16 seconds East 10.83 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement
Part
One,
containing
7206.69 square feet.
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART TWO:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the westerly line of East
112th Street at it’s intersection with
the northerly line of Block “A” in
the Macoban Realty Company Subdivision as recorded in Volume 94
Page 2 of the Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence South 89 degrees 24 minutes 16 seconds West 81.83 feet to
the true place of beginning of the
temporary sewer easement herein
described;
Thence South 21 degrees 59 minutes 17 seconds West 20.14 feet to a
point;
Thence South 18 degrees 55 minutes 12 seconds West 524.53 feet to
a point;
Thence South 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds East 172.51 feet to
a point;
Thence South 89 degrees 51 minutes 51 seconds West 10.51 feet to a
point;
Thence North 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds West 172.62 feet to
a point;
Thence North 18 degrees 55 minutes 12 seconds East 528.13 feet to
a point;
Thence North 21 degrees 59 minutes 17 seconds East 16.55 feet to a
point;
Thence North 89 degrees 26 minutes 16 seconds East 10.83 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement
Part
Two,
containing
7173.87 square feet and a total of
14,380.56 square feet more or less in
Temporary Easement Parts One and
Two as described herein, as determined by J. M. Linn, Ohio Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6638
from record deed and plat information, being subject to all legal roads,
highways, and easements of record.
The bearings used in this description are assumed and should be used
for angular information only.

The City Record
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF PERMANENT SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA5P
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 363 and
being a permanent easement across
part of the property deeded to the
City of Cleveland of record in Volume 1265 Page 323 and Volume 1266
Page 285 of the Cuyahoga County
Deed Records all being a part of
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel (PPN) No. 111-01-003,
said
permanent
easement
being
more particularly described as follows:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the westerly line of East
112th Street where intersected by
the northerly line of St. Clair Avenue;
Thence South 77 degrees 44 minutes 00 seconds West with the
northerly line of St. Clair Avenue
275.49 feet to the true place of beginning of the herein described permanent sewer easement;
Thence continuing South 77 degrees 44 minutes 00 seconds West
with said northerly line of St. Clair
Avenue 30.99 feet to a point;
Thence North 02 degrees 15 minutes 52 seconds East 250.59 feet to
a point;
Thence North 00 degrees 12 minutes 03 seconds East 251.55 feet to
a point;
Thence North 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds West 170.91 feet to
a point;
Thence North 89 degrees 51 minutes 43 seconds East 31.52 feet to a
point;
Thence South 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds East 166.04 feet to
a point;
Thence South 00 degrees 12 minutes 03 seconds West 139.74 feet to
a point;
Thence South 78 degrees 24 minutes 44 seconds West 6.76 feet to a
point;
Thence South 11 degrees 35 minutes 40 seconds East 32.38 feet to a
point;
Thence South 00 degrees 12 minutes 03 seconds West 84.08 feet to a
point;
Thence South 02 degrees 15 minutes 52 seconds West 243.36 feet to
the place of beginning, containing
19,980.74 square feet, more or less,
as determined by J. M. Linn, Ohio
Registered
Professional
Surveyor
No. 6638 from record deed and plat
information, being subject to all
legal roads, highways, and easements of record. The bearings used
in this description are assumed and
should be used for angular information only.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF TEMPORARY SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA5T
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 363 and
being a temporary easement across
part of the property deeded to the
City of Cleveland of record in Volume 1265 Page 323 and Volume 1266
Page 285 of the Cuyahoga County

1450

August 15, 2007
Deed Records all being a part of
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel (PPN) No. 111-01-003,
said
permanent
easement
being
more particularly described as follows:
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART ONE:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the westerly line of East
112th Street where intersected by
the northerly line of St. Clair Avenue;
Thence South 77 degrees 44 minutes 00 seconds West with the
northerly line of St. Clair Avenue
265.16 feet to the true place of beginning of the herein described temporary sewer easement;
Thence continuing South 77 degrees 44 minutes 00 seconds West
with said northerly line of St. Clair
Avenue 10.33 feet to a point;
Thence North 02 degrees 15 minutes 52 seconds East 243.36 feet to
a point;
Thence North 00 degrees 12 minutes 03 seconds East 54.08 feet to a
point;
Thence South 11 degrees 35 minutes 40 seconds East 48.92 feet to a
point;
Thence South 00 degrees 12 minutes 03 seconds West 36.38 feet to a
point;
Thence South 02 degrees 15 minutes 52 seconds West 240.95 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement
Part
One,
containing
3023.87 square feet, more or less.
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART TWO:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the westerly line of East
112th Street where intersected by
the northerly line of St. Clair Avenue;
Thence South 77 degrees 44 minutes 00 seconds West with the
northerly line of St. Clair Avenue
306.48 feet to the true place of beginning of the herein described temporary sewer easement;
Thence continuing South 77 degrees 44 minutes 00 seconds West
with said northerly line of St. Clair
Avenue 10.33 feet to a point;
Thence North 02 degrees 15 minutes 52 seconds East 252.99 feet to
a point;
Thence North 00 degrees 12 minutes 03 seconds East 249.76 feet to
a point;
Thence North 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds West 172.53 feet to
a point;
Thence North 89 degrees 51 minutes 43 seconds East 10.51 feet to a
point;
Thence South 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds East 170.91 feet to
a point;
Thence South 00 degrees 12 minutes 03 seconds West 251.55 feet to
a point;
Thence South 02 degrees 15 minutes 52 seconds West 250.59 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement
Part
One,
containing
6741.66 square feet, more or less.
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART THREE:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the westerly line of East
112th Street where intersected by
the northerly line of St. Clair Avenue;

August 15, 2007
Thence South 77 degrees 44 minutes 00 seconds West with the
northerly line of St. Clair Avenue
316.81 feet to a point;
Thence North 02 degrees 15 minutes 52 seconds East 252.99 feet to
a point;
Thence North 00 degrees 12 minutes 03 seconds East 249.76 feet to
a point;
Thence North 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds West 172.53 feet to
a point;
Thence North 89 degrees 51 minutes 43 seconds East 42.03 feet to
the true place of beginning of Temporary Easement Part Three;
Thence continuing North 89 degrees 51 minutes 43 seconds East
10.51 feet to a point;
Thence South 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds East 164.42 feet to
a point;
Thence South 00 degrees 12 minutes 03 seconds West 139.26 feet to
a point;
Thence South 78 degrees 24 minutes 44 seconds West 10.22 feet to a
point;
Thence North 00 degrees 12 minutes 03 seconds East 139.74 feet to
a point;
Thence North 18 degrees 01 minutes 45 seconds West 166.04 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement Part Three, containing
3047.27 square feet, more or less, and
containing 12,812.80 square feet total
more or less in Temporary Easement Parts One, Two, and Three
herein described, as determined by
J. M. Linn, Ohio Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6638 from record
deed and plat information, being
subject to all legal roads, highways,
and easements of record. The bearings used in this description are
assumed and should be used for
angular information only.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF PERMANENT SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA7P
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 363 and
being a permanent easement across
part of the property deeded to the
City of Cleveland of record in Volume 1266 Pages 274, 275, and 279,
and Volume 2349 Page 360 of the
Cuyahoga County Deed Records, and
being more particularly described as
follows:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the southerly line of St.
Clair Avenue being the northeast
corner of a parcel deeded to the City
of Cleveland in Volume 1266 Page
274 and also being the northwest
corner of a parcel deeded to said
City of Cleveland in Volume 1266
Page 279;
Thence North 77 degrees 49 minutes 24 seconds East along the said
southerly line of St. Clair Avenue
39.14 feet to the true place of beginning of the herein described permanent sewer easement;
Thence continuing North 77 degrees 49 minutes 24 seconds East
with said southerly line of St. Clair
Avenue 50.48 feet to a point;
Thence South 02 degrees 15 minutes 52 seconds West 53.12 feet to a
point;

The City Record

31

Thence South 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds West 280.44 feet to
a point;
Thence South 11 degrees 02 minutes 33 seconds East 582.85 feet to
a point;
Thence South 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds East 178.32 feet to
a point;
Thence South 89 degrees 44 minutes 42 seconds West 35.21 feet to a
point;
Thence North 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds West 165.39 feet to
a point;
Thence North 11 degrees 02 minutes 33 seconds West 591.94 feet to
a point;
Thence North 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds East 187.11 feet to
a point;
Thence North 87 degrees 25 minutes 06 seconds West 10.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds East 50.87 feet to a
point;
Thence North 87 degrees 25 minutes 06 seconds West 36.25 feet to a
point;
Thence North 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds East 24.25 feet to a
point;
Thence North 87 degrees 25 minutes 06 seconds West 58.67 feet to a
point;
Thence North 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds East 30.00 feet to a
point;
Thence South 87 degrees 25 minutes 06 seconds East 94.56 feet to a
point;
Thence North 12 degrees 39 minutes 58 seconds West 33.23 feet to
the point of beginning, containing
38,012.84 square feet, more or less,
as determined by J. M. Linn, Ohio
Registered
Professional
Surveyor
No. 6638 from record deed and plat
information, being subject to all
legal roads, highways, and easements of record. The bearings used
in this description are assumed and
should be used for angular information only.

Thence South 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds West 30.00 feet to a
point;
Thence South 87 degrees 25 minutes 06 seconds East 58.67 feet to a
point;
Thence South 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds West 24.25 feet to a
point;
Thence South 87 degrees 25 minutes 06 seconds East 36.25 feet to a
point;
Thence South 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds West 50.87 feet to a
point;
Thence South 87 degrees 25 minutes 06 seconds East 10.00 feet to a
point;
Thence South 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds West 171.58 feet to
a point in the northerly line of a
parcel conveyed to the Board of
Education of the Cleveland City
School District by Official Deed of
record in Volume 13101 Page 453 of
the Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence South 76 degrees 51 minutes 20 seconds West 10.39 feet with
the northerly line of said Cleveland
City School District parcel to a
point;
Thence North 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds East 164.39 feet to
a point;
Thence North 87 degrees 25 minutes 06 seconds West 10.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds East 50.87 feet to a
point;
Thence North 87 degrees 25 minutes 06 seconds West 36.25 feet to a
point;
Thence North 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds East 14.25 feet to a
point;
Thence North 87 degrees 25 minutes 06 seconds West 49.31 feet to a
point;
Thence North 07 degrees 59 minutes 54 seconds West 57.48 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement
Part
One,
containing
6,188.71 square feet.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF TEMPORARY SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA7T
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 363 and
being a temporary easement in two
parts across part of the property
deeded to the City of Cleveland of
record in Volume 1266 Pages 274 and
279 of the Cuyahoga County Deed
Records, and being more particularly described as follows:

TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART TWO:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the southerly line of St.
Clair Avenue being the northwest
corner of a parcel deeded to the City
of Cleveland in Volume 1266 Page
274;
Thence North 77 degrees 49 minutes 24 seconds East along the said
southerly line of St. Clair Avenue
150.80 feet to the true place of beginning of the herein described temporary sewer easement;
Thence
continuing
with
said
southerly line of St. Clair Avenue
North 77 degrees 49 minutes 24 seconds East 10.33 feet to a point;
Thence South 02 degrees 15 minutes 52 seconds West 55.73 feet to a
point;
Thence South 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds West 257.26 feet to
a point in the northerly line of a
parcel conveyed to the Board of
Education of the Cleveland City
School District by Official Deed of
record in Volume 13101 Page 453 of
the Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence South 76 degrees 51 minutes 20 seconds West 10.39 feet with
the northerly line of said Cleveland
City School District parcel to a
point:

TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART ONE:
Beginning at a point in the
southerly line of St. Clair Avenue
being the northwesterly corner of a
parcel deeded to the City of Cleveland in Volume 1266 Page 274;
Thence North 77 degrees 49 minutes 24 seconds East along the said
southerly line of St. Clair Avenue
100.32 feet to a point;
Thence South 12 degrees 39 minutes 58 seconds East 33.22 feet to a
point;
Thence North 87 degrees 25 minutes 06 seconds West 94.56 feet to a
point;

1451

32
Thence North 02 degrees 34 minutes 54 seconds East 260.04 feet to
a point;
Thence North 02 degrees 15 minutes 52 seconds East 53.12 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement
Part
Two,
containing
3,130.75 square feet, more or less,
and a total of 9,319.46 square feet,
more or less, in Temporary Easements Part One and Part Two as
described herein, as determined by
J. M. Lmnn, Ohio Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6638 from
record deed and plat information,
being subject to all legal roads,
highways, and easements of record.
The bearings used in this description are assumed and should be used
for angular information only.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF PERMANENT SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA8AP
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 363 and
being a permanent easement across
part of the property deeded to the
City of Cleveland of record in Volume 1266 Page 279, and Volume 2349
Page 360 of the Cuyahoga County
Deed Records, and being more particularly described as follows:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the easterly line of Lakeview Road being the southerly point
of the property deeded to the Board
of Education of the Cleveland City
School District of record in Volume
13101 Page 453 of the Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
Thence North 45 degrees 45 minutes 53 seconds East 241.80 feet
along a southerly line of the said
Board of Education of the Cleveland
City School District property to a
point in the northerly line of the
said City of Cleveland property and
being the true place of beginning of
the
herein
described
permanent
sewer easement;
Thence North 45 degrees 45 minutes 53 seconds East 30.72 feet along
the said northerly line of the said
City of Cleveland, Ohio property and
the said southerly line of the said
Board of Education of the Cleveland
City School District property to a
point;
Thence South 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds East 113.91 feet to
a point in the southerly line of said
City of Cleveland, Ohio property and
the northerly line of a parcel conveyed to the City of Cleveland by
deed of record in Volume 1657 Page
470 of the Cuyahoga County Deed
Records;
Thence South 89 degrees 44 minutes 42 seconds West 35.21 feet
along said line to a point;
Thence North 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds West 88.88 feet to
the place of beginning, containing
3,041.88 square feet, more or less, as
determined by J. M. Linn, Ohio Registered Professional Surveyor No.
6638 from record deed and plat information, being subject to all legal
roads, highways, and easements of
record. The bearings used in this
description are assumed and should
be used for angular information
only.

The City Record
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF TEMPORARY SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA8AT
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF
THE CLEVELAND CITY
SCHOOL DISTRICT
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 363 and
being a temporary easement in two
parts across part of the property
deeded to the City of Cleveland of
record in Volume 1266 Page 279, and
Volume 2349 Page 360 of the Cuyahoga County Deed Records, and
being more particularly described as
follows:
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART ONE:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the easterly line of Lakeview Road being the southerly point
of the property deeded to the Board
of Education of the Cleveland City
School District of record in Volume
13101 Page 453 of the Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
Thence North 45 degrees 45 minutes 53 seconds East 231.56 feet
along a southerly line of the said
Board of Education of the Cleveland
City School District property to a
point in the northerly line of the
said City of Cleveland property and
being the true place of beginning of
the
herein
described
temporary
sewer easement;
Thence North 45 degrees 45 minutes 53 seconds East 10.24 feet along
said line to a point;
Thence South 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds East 88.88 feet to a
point in the southerly line of said
City of Cleveland, Ohio property and
the northerly line of a parcel conveyed to the City of Cleveland by
deed of record in Volume 1657 Page
470 of the Cuyahoga County Deed
Records;
Thence South 89 degrees 44 minutes 42 seconds West 11.74 feet
along said line to a point;
Thence North 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds West 80.53 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement
Part
One,
containing
847.06 square feet.
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART TWO:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the easterly line of Lakeview Road being the southerly point
of the said Board of Education of
the Cleveland City School District
property;
Thence North 45 degrees 45 minutes 53 seconds East 272.52 feet
along a southerly line of the said
Board of Education of the Cleveland
City School District property to a
point in the northerly line of the
said City of Cleveland property and
being the true place of beginning of
the
herein
described
temporary
sewer easement;
Thence North 45 degrees 45 minutes 53 seconds East 10.24 feet along
said line to a point;
Thence South 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds East 122.26 feet to
a point in the southerly line of said
City of Cleveland property and the
northerly line of a parcel conveyed
to the City of Cleveland by deed of
record in Volume 1657 Page 470 of
the Cuyahoga County Deed Records;

1452

August 15, 2007
Thence South 89 degrees 44 minutes 42 seconds West 11.74 feet
along said line to a point;
Thence North 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds West 113.91 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement
Part
Two,
containing
1180.85 square feet, and a total of
2027.91 square feet, more or less, in
Temporary Easements Part One and
Part Two as described herein, as
determined by J. M. Linn, Ohio Registered Professional Surveyor No.
6638 from record deed and plat information, being subject to all legal
roads, highways, and easements of
record. The bearings used in this
description are assumed and should
be used for angular information
only.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF PERMANENT SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA9P
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 371 and
being a permanent easement across
part of the property deeded to the
City of Cleveland of record in Volume 1265 Page 312 and Volume 1657
Page 470 of the Cuyahoga County
Deed Records all being a part of
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel (PPN) No. 110-01-004,
said
permanent
easement
being
more particularly described as follows:
Commencing for reference at a
point being the southeasterly corner
of a parcel conveyed to the City of
Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1265
Page 312 of the Cuyahoga County
Deed Records and being a part of
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel (PPN) No. 110-01-004:
Thence North 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds West with the easterly line of said parcel conveyed to
the City of Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1265 Page 312 of the Cuyahoga
County Deed Records 119.40 feet to
the true place of beginning of the
permanent sewer easement herein
described;
Thence North 74 degrees 01 minutes 37 seconds West 165.00 feet to
a point;
Thence North 64 degrees 09 minutes 51 seconds West 516.99 feet to
a point;
Thence North 71 degrees 41 minutes 33 seconds West 342.78 feet to
a point;
Thence North 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds West 175.76 feet to
a point in the northerly line of a
parcel conveyed to the City of Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1657 Page 470
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Deed
Records and being a part of Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel (PPN) No. 110-01-004;
Thence North 89 degrees 44 minutes 42 seconds East with said
northerly line of said City of Cleveland parcel 35.21 feet to a point;
Thence South 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds East 146.45 feet to
a point;
Thence South 71 degrees 41 minutes 33 seconds East 333.88 feet to
a point;
Thence South 64 degrees 09 minutes 51 seconds East 502.40 feet to
a point;

August 15, 2007
Thence South 74 degrees 01 minutes 37 seconds East 153.33 feet to
a point;
Thence South 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds East 31.34 feet to
the place of beginning of the permanent sewer easement herein described, containing 35,258.42 square
feet, more or less, as determined by
J. M. Linn, Ohio Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6638 from record
deed and plat information, being
subject to all legal roads, highways,
and easements of record. The bearings used in this description are
assumed and should be used for
angular information only.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF TEMPORARY SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA9T
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 371 and
being a temporary easement across
part of the property deeded to the
City of Cleveland of record in Volume 1265 Page 312 and Volume 1657
Page 470 of the Cuyahoga County
Deed Records all being a part of
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel (PPN) No. 110-01-004,
said
temporary
easement
being
more particularly described as follows:
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART ONE:
Commencing for reference at a
point being the southeasterly corner
of a parcel conveyed to the City of
Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1265
Page 312 of the Cuyahoga County
Deed Records and being a part of
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel (PPN) No. 110-01-004:
Thence North 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds West with the easterly line of said parcel conveyed to
the City of Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1265 Page 312 of the Cuyahoga
County Deed Records 108.95 feet to
the true place of beginning of the
temporary sewer easement herein
described;
Thence North 74 degrees 01 minutes 37 seconds West 168.89 feet to
a point;
Thence North 64 degrees 09 minutes 51 seconds West 517.19 feet to
a point;
Thence North 71 degrees 41 minutes 33 seconds West 345.75 feet to
a point;
Thence North 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds West 185.53 feet to
a point in the northerly line of a
parcel conveyed to the City of Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1657 Page 470
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Deed
Records and being a part of Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel (PPN) No. 110-01-004;
Thence North 89 degrees 44 minutes 42 seconds East with said
northerly line of said City of Cleveland parcel 11.74 feet to a point;
Thence South 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds East 175.76 feet to
a point;
Thence South 71 degrees 41 minutes 33 seconds East 342.78 feet to
a point;
Thence South 64 degrees 09 minutes 51 seconds East 516.99 feet to
a point;

The City Record
Thence South 74 degrees 01 minutes 37 seconds East 165.00 feet to
a point in the easterly line of a parcel conveyed to the City of Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1265 Page 312
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Deed
Records and being a part of Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel (PPN) No. 110-01-004;
Thence South 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds East with the easterly line of said City of Cleveland
parcel 10.45 feet to the place of
beginning of Temporary Easement
Part
One,
containing
12,089.49
square feet, more or less.
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART TWO:
Commencing for reference at a
point being the southeasterly corner
of a parcel conveyed to the City of
Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1265
Page 312 of the Cuyahoga County
Deed Records and being a part of
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel (PPN) No. 110-01-004:
Thence North 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds West with the easterly line of said parcel conveyed to
the City of Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1265 Page 312 of the Cuyahoga
County Deed Records 150.74 feet to
the true place of beginning of the
temporary sewer easement herein
described;
Thence North 74 degrees 01 minutes 37 seconds West 153.33 feet to
a point;
Thence North 64 degrees 09 minutes 51 seconds West 516.37 feet to
a point;
Thence North 71 degrees 41 minutes 33 seconds West 333.88 feet to
a point;
Thence North 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds West 146.45 feet to
a point in the northerly line of a
parcel conveyed to the City of Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1657 Page 470
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Deed
Records and being a part of Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel (PPN) No. 110-01-004;
Thence North 89 degrees 44 minutes 42 seconds East with said
northerly line of said City of Cleveland parcel 11.74 feet to a point;
Thence South 31 degrees 48 minutes 51 seconds East 136.68 feet to
a point;
Thence South 71 degrees 41 minutes 33 seconds East 330.91 feet to
a point;
Thence South 64 degrees 09 minutes 51 seconds East 516.17 feet to
a point;
Thence South 74 degrees 01 minutes 37 seconds East 149.44 feet to
a point in the easterly line of a parcel conveyed to the City of Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1265 Page 312
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Deed
Records and being a part of Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel (PPN) No. 110-01-004;
Thence South 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds East with the easterly line of said City of Cleveland
parcel 10.45 feet to the place of
beginning of Temporary Easement
Part
Two,
containing
11,416.12
square feet, and a total of 23,505.61
square feet, more or less, in Temporary Easement Parts One and
Two as described herein, as determined by J. M. Linn, Ohio Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6638
from record deed and plat information, being subject to all legal roads,

1453

33
highways, and easements of record.
The bearings used in this description are assumed and should be used
for angular information only.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF PERMANENT SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA1lAP
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 372 and
being a permanent easement across
part of the property deeded to the
City of Cleveland of record in Volume 1813 Page 613 of the Cuyahoga
County Deed Records and being a
part of Cuyahoga County Auditor’s
Permanent Parcel (PPN) No. 110-01004, said permanent easement being
more particularly described as follows:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the westerly line of said
original East Cleveland Township
Lot No. 372 at the northwesterly corner of said property deeded to the
City of Cleveland of record in Volume 1813 Page 613 of the Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
Thence South 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds East with the westerly line of said City of Cleveland
parcel 70.48 feet to the true place of
beginning of the herein described
permanent sewer easement;
Thence
South
74
degrees
01
minute 37 seconds East 320.30 feet
crossing said City of Cleveland parcel to a point;
Thence South 55 degrees 16 minutes 43 seconds East 252.14 feet to
a point;
Thence North 36 degrees 39 minutes 57 seconds East 107.96 feet to
a point in the westerly line of
Thornhill Drive;
Thence South 19 degrees 52 minutes 08 seconds East 25.59 feet along
the westerly line of Thornhill Drive
to a point;
Thence South 16 degrees 08 minutes 23 seconds East 10.86 feet continuing along the westerly line of
Thornhill Drive to a point;
Thence South 36 degrees 39 minutes 57 seconds West 93.19 feet
crossing said City of Cleveland parcel to a point;
Thence South 22 degrees 57 minutes 39 seconds East 632.20 feet to
a point;
Thence South 81 degrees 52 minutes 02 seconds East 24.08 feet to a
point in the westerly line of Thornhill Drive;
Thence South 40 degrees 30 minutes 13 seconds East 68.00 feet along
the westerly line of Thornhill Drive
to a point;
Thence North 81 degrees 54 minutes 58 seconds West 36.94 feet
crossing said City of Cleveland parcel to a point;
Thence South 08 degrees 07 minutes 58 seconds West 23.14 feet to a
point;
Thence South 23 degrees 12 minutes 06 seconds East 16.83 feet to a
point in the northwesterly line of
Arlington Avenue;
Thence South 55 degrees 08 minutes 20 seconds West along the
northwesterly line of Arlington Avenue 25.15 feet to a point;
Thence North 22 degrees 20 minutes 45 seconds West 6.97 feet cross-

34
ing said City of Cleveland parcel to
a point;
Thence South 55 degrees 27 minutes 02 seconds West 32.04 feet to a
point in the easterly line of a parcel deeded to the Board of Education of the Cleveland City School
District in Volume 6269 Page 51 of
the Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence North 22 degrees 36 minutes 41 seconds West 30.66 feet
along the easterly line of said Board
of Education of the Cleveland City
School District parcel to a point;
Thence North 55 degrees 27 minutes 02 seconds East 29.23 feet crossing said City of Cleveland parcel to
a point;
Thence North 23 degrees 56 minutes 49 seconds West 28.53 feet to a
point;
Thence North 22 degrees 57 minutes 39 seconds West 670.92 feet to
a point;
Thence North 55 degrees 16 minutes 43 seconds West 257.34 feet to
a point;
Thence North 74 degrees 01 minutes 37 seconds West 306.26 feet to
a point in the westerly line of said
City of Cleveland parcel and the
westerly line of said Original East
Cleveland Township Lot No. 372;
Thence North 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds West 31.34 feet with
said westerly line of said City of
Cleveland property and the westerly line of said Original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 372 to the
place of beginning of the herein
described permanent sewer easement, containing 44,947.36 square
feet, as determined by J. M. Linn,
Ohio Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6638 from record deed and
plat information, being subject to
all legal roads, highways, and easements of record. The bearings used
in this description are assumed and
should be used for angular information only.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF TEMPORARY SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA11AT
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, the State of
Ohio, and the original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 372 and
being a temporary easement in
three parts across part of the property deeded to the City of Cleveland
of record in Volume 1813 Page 613
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Deed
Records and being a part of Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel (PPN) No. 110-01-004, said
temporary easement being more particularly described as follows:
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART ONE:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the westerly line of said
original East Cleveland Township
Lot No. 372 at the northwesterly corner of said property deeded to the
City of Cleveland of record in Volume 1813 Page 613 of the Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
Thence South 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds East 101.83 feet to
a point in the said westerly line of
said original East Cleveland Township Lot No. 372 and being the true
place of beginning of the herein
described Temporary Easement Part
One;

The City Record
Thence South 74 degrees 01 minutes 37 seconds East 306.26 feet to
a point;
Thence South 55 degrees 16 minutes 43 seconds East 257.34 feet to
a point;
Thence South 22 degrees 57 minutes 39 seconds East 670.92 feet to
a point;
Thence South 23 degrees 56 minutes 49 seconds East 28.53 feet to a
point;
Thence South 55 degrees 27 minutes 02 seconds West 10.17 feet to a
point;
Thence North 23 degrees 56 minutes 49 seconds West 30.49 feet to a
point;
Thence North 22 degrees 57 minutes 39 seconds West 668.11 feet to
a point;
Thence North 55 degrees 16 minutes 43 seconds West 252.80 feet to
a point;
Thence North 74 degrees 01 minutes 37 seconds West 301.58 feet to
a point;
Thence North 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds West 10.45 feet to
the place of beginning of the herein described Temporary Easement
Part
One,
containing
12,580.13
square feet, more or less.
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART TWO:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the westerly line of said
original Township Lot No. 372 at the
northwesterly corner of said property deeded to the City of Cleveland
of record in Volume 1813 Page 613
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Deed
Records;
Thence South 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds East 60.04 feet to a
point in the said westerly line of
said original Township Lot No. 372
and being the true place of beginning of the herein described Temporary Easement Part Two;
Thence South 74 degrees 01 minutes 37 seconds East 324.97 feet to
a point;
Thence South 55 degrees 16 minutes 43 seconds East 244.13 feet to
a point;
Thence North 36 degrees 39 minutes 57 seconds East 104.90 feet to
a point;
Thence South 19 degrees 52 minutes 08 seconds East 11.99 feet to a
point;
Thence South 36 degrees 39 minutes 57 seconds West 107.96 feet to
a point;
Thence North 55 degrees 16 minutes 43 seconds West 252.14 feet to
a point;
Thence North 74 degrees 01 minutes 37 seconds West 320.30 feet to
a point;
Thence North 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds West 10.45 feet to
the place of beginning of the herein described Temporary Easement
Part Two, containing 6772.03 square
feet, more or less.
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART THREE:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the westerly line of said
original Township Lot No. 372 at the
northwesterly corner of said property deeded to the City of Cleveland
of record in Volume 1813 Page 613
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Deed
Records;

1454

August 15, 2007
Thence South 00 degrees 52 minutes 03 seconds East 60.04 feet to a
point;
Thence
South
74
degrees
01
minute 37 seconds East 324.97 feet
to a point;
Thence South 55 degrees 16 minutes 43 seconds East 244.13 feet to
a point;
Thence North 36 degrees 39 minutes 57 seconds East 104.90 feet to
a point;
Thence South 19 degrees 52 minutes 08 seconds East 37.58 feet to a
point;
Thence South 16 degrees 08 minutes 23 seconds East 10.86 feet to a
point in the westerly line of Thornhill Drive and being the true place
of beginning of the herein described
Temporary Easement Part Three;
Thence South 16 degrees 08 minutes 23 seconds East 12.55 feet to a
point;
Thence South 36 degrees 39 minutes 57 seconds West 79.87 feet to a
point;
Thence South 22 degrees 57 minutes 39 seconds East 535.67 feet to
a point;
Thence South 16 degrees 08 minutes 23 seconds East 50.89 feet to a
point;
Thence South 40 degrees 30 minutes 13 seconds East 55.29 feet to a
point;
Thence North 81 degrees 52 minutes 02 seconds West 24.08 feet to a
point;
Thence North 22 degrees 57 minutes 39 seconds West 632.20 feet to
a point;
Thence North 36 degrees 39 minutes 57 seconds East 93.19 feet to
the place of beginning of the herein described Temporary Easement
Part
Three,
containing
7122.75
square feet, more or less, and a total
of 26,474.91 square feet in Temporary Easement Parts One, Two, and
Three as herein described, as determined by J. M. Linn, Ohio Registered Professional Surveyor No. 6638
from record deed and plat information, being subject to all legal roads,
highways, and easements of record.
The bearings used in this description are assumed and should be used
for angular information only.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF PERMANENT SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA11BP
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated partly in the City of
Cleveland and partly in the City of
East Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, the State of Ohio, and in the
original East Cleveland Township
Lots No. 372 and 381 and being a
permanent easement across part of
the property deeded to the City of
Cleveland of record in Volume 1265
Page 310 and Volume 1813 Page 613
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Deed
Records, said permanent easement
being more particularly described as
follows:
PERMANENT EASEMENT
PART ONE:
Commencing for reference at a
point being the most southerly corner of a parcel conveyed to the City
of Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1813
Page 613 of the Cuyahoga County
Deed Records:

August 15, 2007
Thence North 45 degrees 11 minutes 14 seconds West 132.42 feet to
the true place of beginning of the
Permanent Easement Part One herein described;
Thence North 89 degrees 13 minutes 13 seconds West 232.06 feet to
a point;
Thence North 69 degrees 52 minutes 00 seconds West 192.41 feet to
a point;
Thence North 64 degrees 05 minutes 32 seconds West 377.21 feet to
a point;
Thence North 38 degrees 45 minutes 45 seconds West 438.51 feet to
a point;
Thence North 36 degrees 42 minutes 43 seconds West 183.16 feet to
a point;
Thence North 21 degrees 25 minutes 17 seconds East 35.32 feet to a
point;
Thence South 36 degrees 42 minutes 43 seconds East 201.27 feet to
a point;
Thence South 38 degrees 45 minutes 45 seconds East 431.23 feet to
a point;
Thence South 64 degrees 05 minutes 32 seconds East 62.09 feet to a
point of curvature;
Thence with a curve deflecting to
the left, said curve having a radius
414.19 feet, a chord of 262.18 feet
bearing South 64 degrees 05 minutes
32 seconds East, 266.76 feet to a
point;
Thence South 64 degrees 05 minutes 32 seconds East 44.69 feet to a
point;
Thence South 69 degrees 52 minutes 00 seconds East 164.62 feet to
a point;
Thence North 89 degrees 13 minutes 13 seconds East 220.73 feet to
a point;
Thence South 13 degrees 50 minutes 44 seconds East 11.34 feet to a
point;
Thence South 10 degrees 27 minutes 11 seconds East 19.23 feet to
the place of beginning of Permanent
Easement
Part
One,
containing
38,729.16 square feet, more or less.
PERMANENT EASEMENT
PART TWO:
Commencing for reference at a
point being the most southerly corner of a parcel conveyed to the City
of Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1813
Page 613 of the Cuyahoga County
Deed Records:
Thence North 13 degrees 16 minutes 50 seconds West 102.02 feet to
the true place of beginning of the
Permanent
Easement
Part
Two
herein described;
Thence North 31 degrees 04 minutes 43 seconds West 5.39 feet to a
point;
Thence North 27 degrees 49 minutes 18 seconds West 7.79 feet to a
point;
Thence North 23 degrees 47 minutes 48 seconds West 9.13 feet to a
point;
Thence North 89 degrees 13 minutes 13 seconds East 50.12 feet to a
point;
Thence South 52 degrees 00 minutes 37 seconds East 1.91 feet to a
point;
Thence North 08 degrees 39 minutes 53 seconds East 1.21 feet to a
point;

The City Record
Thence North 89 degrees 13 minutes 13 seconds East 7.49 feet to a
point;
Thence South 00 degrees 31 minutes 57 seconds East 20.00 feet to a
point;
Thence South 89 degrees 13 minutes 13 seconds West 49.39 feet to
the place of beginning of Permanent Easement Part Two containing 1092.70 square feet, more or
less, and a total in Permanent
Easements Part One and Two of
39,821.86 square feet, more or less,
as determined by J. M. Linn, Ohio
Registered Professional Surveyor
No. 6638 from record deed and plat
information, being subject to all
legal roads, highways, and easements of record. The bearings used
in this description are assumed and
should be used for angular information only.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF TEMPORARY SEWER
EASEMENT DEIRS-EA11BT
ON THE PROPERTY OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Situated partly in the City of
Cleveland and partly in the City of
East Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, the State of Ohio, and in the
original East Cleveland Township
Lots No. 372 and 381 and being a
temporary easement across part of
the property deeded to the City of
Cleveland of record in Volume 1265
Page 310 and Volume 1813 Page 613
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Deed
Records, said temporary easement
being more particularly described as
follows:
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART ONE:
Commencing for reference at a
point being the most southerly corner of a parcel conveyed to the City
of Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1813
Page 613 of the Cuyahoga County
Deed Records:
Thence North 45 degrees 11 minutes 14 seconds West 132.42 feet to
the true place of beginning of the
Temporary Easement Part One herein described;
Thence South 10 degrees 27 minutes 11 seconds East 6.60 feet to a
point;
Thence South 06 degrees 37 minutes 48 seconds East 3.51 feet to a
point;
Thence South 89 degrees 13 minutes 13 seconds West 117.85 feet to
a point;
Thence South 00 degrees 46 minutes 47 seconds East 20.00 feet to a
point;
Thence South 89 degrees 13 minutes 13 seconds West 121.21 feet to
a point;
Thence North 69 degrees 52 minutes 00 seconds West 34.75 feet to a
point;
Thence North 20 degrees 08 minutes 00 seconds East 20.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 69 degrees 52 minutes 00 seconds West 163.70 feet to
a point;
Thence North 64 degrees 05 minutes 32 seconds West 379.97 feet to
a point;
Thence North 38 degrees 45 minutes 45 seconds West 440.94 feet to
a point;

1455

35
Thence North 36 degrees 42 minutes 43 seconds West 481.27 feet to
a point;
Thence North 38 degrees 05 minutes 56 seconds West 24.93 feet to a
point;
Thence South 52 degrees 47 minutes 48 seconds West 84.99 feet to a
point;
Thence North 37 degrees 40 minutes 05 seconds West 140.38 feet to
a point;
Thence North 52 degrees 47 minutes 51 seconds East 75.36 feet to a
point;
Thence North 36 degrees 44 minutes 15 seconds West 104.37 feet to
a point of curvature;
Thence with a curve deflecting to
the left, said curve having a radius
of 568.73 feet, a chord of 42.87 feet
bearing South 50 degrees 13 minutes
36 seconds East, 42.88 feet to a
point;
Thence South 36 degrees 44 minutes 15 seconds East 72.60 feet to a
point;
Thence South 52 degrees 47 51 seconds West 75.19 feet to a point;
Thence South 37 degrees 40 minutes 05 seconds East 120.50 feet to
a point;
Thence North 52 degrees 42 minutes 52 seconds East 84.91 feet to a
point;
Thence South 38 degrees 05 minutes 56 seconds East 34.89 feet to a
point;
Thence South 36 degrees 42 minutes 43 seconds East 481.22 feet to
a point;
Thence South 38 degrees 45 minutes 45 seconds East 438.51 feet to
a point;
Thence South 64 degrees 05 minutes 32 seconds East 377.21 feet to
a point;
Thence South 69 degrees 52 minutes 00 seconds East 192.41 feet to
a point;
Thence North 89 degrees 13 minutes 13 seconds East 232.06 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary
Easement
Part
One,
containing
24,388.18 square feet, more or less.
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART TWO:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the southwesterly line of
Thornhill Drive, which point bears
North 26 degrees 57 minutes 45 seconds East 410.51 feet from the northwesterly corner of a parcel deeded
to the City of Cleveland in Volume
1265 Page 310 of the Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
Thence North 36 degrees 42 minutes 43 seconds West 311.96 feet to
a point;
Thence North 50 degrees 33 minutes 47 seconds East 10.01 feet to a
point;
Thence South 36 degrees 42 minutes 42 seconds East 209.87 feet to
a point of curvature;
Thence with a curve deflecting to
the left, said curve having a radius
of 568.73 feet, a chord of 1.60 feet
bearing South 31 degrees 10 minutes
52 seconds East, 1.60 feet to a point
of curvature;
Thence with a curve to the left,
said curve having a radius of 568.73
feet, a chord of 101.46 feet bearing
South 31 degrees 08 minutes 35 seconds East, 101.60 feet to the place of
beginning of Temporary Easement
Part Two containing 2455.78 square
feet, more or less.

36
TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART THREE:
Commencing for reference at a
point in the southwesterly line of
Thornhill Drive, which point bears
South 78 degrees 38 minutes 24 seconds East 616.47 feet from the northwesterly corner of a parcel deeded
to the City of Cleveland in Volume
1265 Page 310 of the Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
Thence North 64 degrees 05 minutes 32 seconds West 62.09 feet to a
point;
Thence North 38 degrees 45 minutes 45 seconds West 431.23 feet to
a point;
Thence North 36 degrees 42 minutes 43 seconds West 145.64 feet to
a point of curvature;
Thence with a curve deflecting to
the left, said curve having a radius
of 568.73 feet, a chord of 87.93 feet
bearing South 41 degrees 35 minutes
49 seconds East, 88.02 feet to a
point;
Thence South 40 degrees 16 minutes 56 seconds East 40.34 feet to a
point;
Thence South 36 degrees 42 minutes 43 seconds East 17.59 feet to a
point;
Thence South 38 degrees 45 minutes 45 seconds East 428.81 feet to
a point;
Thence South 64 degrees 05 minutes 32 seconds East 33.37 feet to a
point;
Thence South 40 degrees 42 minutes 53 seconds East 5.77 feet to a
point of curvature;
Thence with a curve deflecting to
the left, said curve having a radius
of 4l4.19 feet, a chord of 22.54 feet
bearing South 44 degrees 04 minutes
56 seconds East, 22.54 feet to the
place of beginning of Temporary
Easement Part Three containing
5528.31 square feet, more or less.

TEMPORARY EASEMENT
PART FOUR:
Commencing for reference at a
point being the most southerly corner of a parcel conveyed to the City
of Cleveland, Ohio in Volume 1813
Page 613 of the Cuyahoga County
Deed Records:
Thence North 39 degrees 05 minutes 43 seconds West 158.81 feet to
the true place of beginning of the
Temporary
Easement
Part
Four
herein described;
Thence South 89 degrees 13 minutes 13 seconds West 220.73 feet to
a point;
Thence North 69 degrees 52 minutes 00 seconds West 185.36 feet to
a point;
Thence North 64 degrees 05 minutes 32 seconds West 44.69 feet to a
point of curvature;
Thence with a curve deflecting to
the left, said curve having a radius
of 414.19 feet, a chord of 28.64 feet
with a bearing of South 84 degrees
31 minutes 29 seconds East, 28.65
feet to a point;
Thence South 64 degrees 05 minutes 32 seconds East 17.34 feet to a
point;
Thence South 69 degrees 52 minutes 00 seconds East 161.17 feet to
a point;
Thence North 20 degrees 08 minutes 00 seconds East 20.00 feet to a
point;

The City Record
Thence South 69 degrees 52 minutes 00 seconds East 18.14 feet to a
point;
Thence North 89 degrees 13 minutes 13 seconds East 104.60 feet to
a point;
Thence South 00 degrees 46 minutes 47 seconds East 20.00 feet to a
point;
Thence North 89 degrees 13 minutes 13 seconds East 108.27 feet to
a point;
Thence South 13 degrees 50 minutes 44 seconds East 10.27 feet to
the place of beginning of Temporary Easement Part Four, containing 6862.52 square feet, more or
less, and a total of 39,234.79 square
feet more or less in Temporary
Easement Parts One, Two, Three
and Four as described herein, as
determined by J. M. Linn, Ohio
Registered Professional Surveyor
No. 6638 from record deed and plat
information, being subject to all
legal roads, highways, and easements of record. The bearings used
in this description are assumed and
should be used for angular information only.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described easement interest to
the NEORSD, subject to any conditions stated, for a price of $1.00, and
other valuable considerations.
Section 3. That the easement interest shall be non-exclusive and the
purpose of the easement shall be to
construct and maintain the Sewer
Project.
Section 4. That the duration of
the easement shall be until the
easement is no longer required by
the NEORSD to construct and maintain the Sewer Project; that the
easement may include reasonable
right of entry rights to the City;
that the easement shall not be
assignable without the consent of
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties; that the easement
shall require that the NEORSD indemnify the City, provide reasonable
insurance, maintain any NEORSD
improvements located within the
easement, and pay any applicable
taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made by
official deed of easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties
on
behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The Directors of Parks, Recreation
and Properties and Law are authorized to execute other documents,
including without limitation, contracts for right of entry, as may be
necessary to effect the Sewer Project.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City

1456

August 15, 2007
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1258-07.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
Operation and Maintenance Plan
with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency regarding the engineering control used at the Collinwood Track and Field Facility
for the environmental clean-up of
the property; authorizing the Mayor
to place an environmental Declaration of Covenants and Restrictions
on the property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an Operation and Maintenance Plan (the
“Plan”) with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (“OEPA”)
regarding the engineering controls
used at the Collinwood Track and
Field Facility for the environmental
clean-up of the property. The Plan
will include, but will not be limited
to, an agreement that the City will
require the Collinwood Track and
Field Facility will be used as an
athletic field and that the use of the
property will be restricted to “commercial/industrial”
or
“restricted
residential.
Section 2. That the Mayor is
authorized to place an environmental Declaration of Covenants and
Restrictions on City-owned property
known as the Collinwood Track and
Field Facility.
Section 3. That the environmental Declaration of Covenants and
Restrictions referred to in Section 2
shall require, among other things,
that the Collinwood Track and Field
Facility will be used as an athletic
field and that the use of the property will be restricted to “commercial/industrial” or “restricted residential.”
Section 4. That the Plan shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
the Director of Law, and other
appropriate City officials are authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
Plan authorized by this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1259-07.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Pierce Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at 11623 Lake Avenue and
1227 West 116th Street to Marous
Development LLC, or its designee;
and authorizing the Directors of
Community Development and Parks,
Recreation and Properties to enter
into an Option to Purchase Agreement
with
Marous
Development
LLC, or its designee for the redevelopment.
Whereas, in 1991, Riser Foods purchased the Fifth Church of Christ
building located at 11623 Lake Avenue and property at 1227 West 116th
Street to build a new supermarket
facility; and
Whereas, in 1995 when Riser
Foods applied for a demolition permit, neighborhood groups successfully convinced the City of Cleveland not to demolish the facility but
rather to delay its demolition until
redevelopment was possible; and
Whereas, in 2002, Riser Foods
gave the property to the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, the Directors of Community Development and Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties
have
requested the sale of City-owned
property no longer needed for public use and is located at 11623 Lake
Avenue and 1227 West 116th Street;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Community Development and Parks,
Recreation and Properties are authorized to enter into and execute an
Option to Purchase Agreement (“Option”) for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Marous Development LLC, or its designee (the
“Redeveloper”) for the acquisition,
disposition, and private redevelopment of the former Fifth Church of
Christ property located at 11623
Lake Avenue and property at 1227
West 116th Street (“Property”).
Section 2. That, as consideration
for the Option, Redeveloper shall
agree to begin the steps necessary
to secure and stabilize the historic
Fifth Church of Christ building on
the Property within 30 days of execution of the Option; Redeveloper
may be authorized to exercise the
option and purchase the Property
upon approval by the City Planning
Commission of a redevelopment plan
for the Property.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the property located at
11623 Lake Avenue and 1227 West
116th Street are no longer needed
for public use and are more fully
described as follows:
The following described real property:

The City Record
Known as 11623 Lake Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio and further described as:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublots
No. 1, 2 and 3 in the Cook and Faerber Re-Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 10
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Re-Subdivision in Volume 32 of
Maps, Page 18 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 150 feet front on the
Southerly side of Lake Avenue, N.W.
and extending back of equal width
179.64 feet deep, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways;
And,
The following described real property:
Known as 1227 W. 116th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio and further described as:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
13 in the Cook and Faerber Re-Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 10 as shown
by the recorded plat of said Re-Subdivision in Volume 32 of Maps, Page
18 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Easterly
side of West 116th Street (formerly
Fruitland Avenue), and extending
back of equal width 145.82 feet, as
appears by said plat.
Section 4. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described
property
to
the
Redeveloper at a price not less than
$1.00, and other valuable considerations, which is determined to be fair
market value by the Board of Control, taking into account all restrictions, reversionary interests and
similar encumbrances placed by the
City of Cleveland in the deed of conveyance.
Section 5. That the conveyance to
the Redeveloper shall also be under
the terms of the Option.
Section 6. That the Option shall
contain other terms and conditions
that the Directors of Community Development, Parks, Recreation and
Properties and Law shall deem necessary and appropriate to protect
the interests of the City, including
terms regarding conveyance of the
Property to the Redeveloper.
Section 7. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require
and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any
advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 8. That the Mayor, the
Director
of
Community
Development, the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties, the Director of
Law, and other appropriate City officials are authorized to execute the
certifications and documents, and
take other actions as may be nec-

1457

37
essary or appropriate in connection
with carrying out the terms of the
Option.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1260-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase property in
furtherance of the Upper Chester
District Master Plan at 1906 East
101st Street for the Department of
Community Development.
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
purchase of property which is located at 1906 East 101st Street, in furtherance of the Upper Chester District Master Plan; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following described
property in furtherance of the Upper
Chester District Master Plan:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
PARCEL A
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
EAST 101ST STREET AND
CHESTER AVENUE
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, known as being part of Sublot
Numbers 1 and 2 in W.S. Streator’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot Number 401 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga
County Records and more land in
One Hundred Acre Lot Number 401,
together forming a parcel of land
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a 5/8 inch capped
iron pin found in the westerly line
of East 101st Street, 72 feet wide, at
the southeasterly corner of a parcel
of land conveyed to The Mount Sinai
Medical Center by deed dated May
15, 1985 and recorded in Volume 853002, Page 15 of Cuyahoga County
Records, said point also being North
1°-28'-31" East as measured along
said westerly line of East 101st
Street, 186.23 feet from its intersection with the northerly line of
Chester Avenue N.E., 86 feet wide.

38
Course No. 1: thence South 1°-28'31" West along the westerly line of
East 101st Street, 115.11 feet to a
drill hole and cross set;
Course No. 2: thence South 89°-49'2l" West, 361.70 feet to a 5/8 inch
capped iron pin set in the easterly
line of the W.S. Streator’s Subdivision as aforementioned;
Course No. 3: thence North 0°-16'04" East along said easterly line of
W.S. Streator’s Subdivision, 3.99 feet
to the northeasterly corner of a parcel of land conveyed to the City of
Cleveland by deed dated December
30, 1931 and recorded in Volume
4217, Page 205 of Cuyahoga County
Records at which point a 5/8 inch
capped iron pin was found;
Course No. 4: thence North 89°-58'24" West along the northerly line of
land so conveyed to the City of
Cleveland, 20.00 feet to a 5/8 inch
capped iron pin set;
Course No. 5: thence North 0°-16'04" East along a line drawn parallel with and distant westerly 20.00
feet by perpendicular measurement,
from said easterly line of the W.S.
Streator’s Subdivision, 101.00 feet to
a drill hole set in an existing 8"
wall in the southerly line of the
Marsh and Cody Bro’s. Re-Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Number 401, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 14
of Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Course No. 6: thence South 89°-58'24" East along said southerly line
of the Marsh and Cody Bro’s. ReSubdivision, 20.00 feet to a 5/8"
capped iron pin found in the southeasterly corner thereof;
Course No. 7: thence North 0°-16'04" East along the easterly line of
the Marsh and Cody Bro’s. Re-Subdivision, 10.18 feet to the southwesterly corner of land conveyed to
The Mt. Sinai Medical Center as
first aforementioned;
Course No. 8: thence North 89°-50'21" East along the southerly line of
land so conveyed to The Mt. Sinai
Medical Center, 364.12 feet to the
place of beginning, containing 43,796
square feet (1.0054 acres) of land,
according to a survey dated July,
2001 by Garrett and Associates, Inc.,
Engineers and Surveyors, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
The bearings used herein are
based on an assumed meridian and
are used to denote angles only.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire the property and
to employ and pay all fees for title
companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental audits, and
all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for this property shall be
$1.00, and other valuable considerations, which is determined to be fair
market value.
Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 032.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1261-07.
By Council Members Zone, Pierce
Scott and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contract
with Nolasco Housing Corporation,
or its designee, to provide financial
assistance in the form of a Community Development Block Grant Float
Loan to partially finance the acquisition of buildings and completion of
renovation work, located at 12151249 West 70th Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a Community
Development
Block
Grant
Float
Loan Agreement with Nolasco Housing Corporation, or its designee, to
provide financial assistance to partially finance the acquisition of
buildings and completion of renovation work, located at 1215-1249 West
70th Street.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be determined by the
Director of Community Development
in accordance with Federal regulations, State and local laws, and the
director is authorized to amend the
terms, from time to time, as the
director deems necessary to remain
consistent with the laws and regulations.
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the agreement shall not exceed
One Million Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,800,000) and shall
be paid from Fund No. 14 SF 810,
Request No. 178613.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development shall obtain an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit to secure repayment
of the loan.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept collateral as the
director deems adequate in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
and all security instrument agreements or other agreements shall be
prepared and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 14.
Section 7. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under federal regulations and expend the fees to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of

1458

August 15, 2007
the loan application, closing, and
servicing of the loan.
Section 8. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
contract and any other documents as
may be appropriate to complete the
transactions.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1262-07.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Beulah Avenue to
Forest Hill Congregation of Jehovahs Witnesses.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. No(s). 120-05137, as more fully described below,
to Forest Hill Congregation of Jehovahs Witnesses.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 120-05-137
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
20 in George M. Hick’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 387 and 388, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Subdivision in Volume 14 of Maps, Page
46 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Said Sublot No. 20 has a frontage of
42 feet on the Northerly side of Beulah Avenue N.E., and extends back
131 98/100 feet on the Easterly line,
130, 23/100 feet on the Westerly line,
and has a rear line of 42 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.

August 15, 2007
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1263-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Building and
Housing to apply for and accept a
grant from the Board of County
Commissioners of Cuyahoga County
for the County Delinquent Tax and
Assessment Collection Fund Grant
Program; authorizing the director to
enter into one or more contracts
with various non-profit and for-profit agencies and entities for services
necessary
to
perform
nuisance
abatements of deteriorated residential buildings in foreclosure, including but not limited to, demolitions,
board-ups, and lot maintenance; and
authorizing the purchase by one or
more requirement contracts of labor
and materials necessary to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $1,000,000, from the
Board of County Commissioners of

The City Record
Cuyahoga County to conduct the
County Delinquent Tax and Assessment Collection Fund Grant Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes described in the file for
the grant described below.
Section 2. That a synopsis of the
relevant portions of Am. Sub. HB
119, which is the authorizing state
statute for this program, placed in
File No. 1263-07-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with various non-profit and for-profit agencies and entities for services
necessary to perform nuisance abatements, under this grant, of deteriorated residential buildings in foreclosure, including but not limited to,
demolitions, board-ups, and lot maintenance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the grant term for
the items of labor and materials necessary to implement this grant, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Building and Housing. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the
contract or contracts shall be paid
from the fund or fund to which are
credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance, and shall
be charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Building and Housing
may sign all documents with the
State of Ohio or any of its political
subdivisions that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 7. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to accept

1459

39
monies in repayment of nuisance
abatements performed under this
grant, including any amount spent
for services related to collection of
demolition cost, such as title searches, credit bureau reports, and document filing fees. Fees collected
under this grant shall be deposited
into a revolving fund which will be
used to provide additional materials,
equipment, supplies, and services
under this grant as described in the
file, and the funds are appropriated
for that purpose.
Section 8. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes,
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of fees under the City’s Demolition and Board-up Programs.
Section 9. That the cost of any
contracts authorized by this ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance and from the revolving
fund mentioned above.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1264-07.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning Commission to apply for and
accept one or more grants from
Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency for the Transportation for
Livable Communities Grant Program; authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts
with various entities to implement
the grant; and to amend Section 3 of
Ordinance No. 1063-06, relating to a
Transportation for Livable Communities Grant.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1063-06, passed August 9, 2006, this
Council authorized the Director of
the City Planning Commission to
apply for and accept grants from
the Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating Agency (“NOACA”) for the
Transportation for Livable Communities Program and authorized contracts with entities to implement
projects under the grants accepted
by that ordinance in 2006; and
Whereas,
one
of
the
entities
authorized by that ordinance was
the Clark-Metro Development Corporation; and
Whereas, that entity is no longer
a part of the grants authorized by
Ord. No. 1063-06 under the Transportation for Livable Communities
Program and should be replaced
with
Stockyards
Redevelopment
Organization; and

The City Record

40
Whereas, in addition to the grants
authorized in 2006 under Ord. No.
1063-06, new grants are available
from NOACA for this year; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
the City Planning Commission is
authorized to apply for and accept
one
or
more
grants
totaling
$236,000, from Northeast Ohio Area
Coordinating Agency to conduct
the
Transportation
for
Livable
Communities
Program;
that
the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds
under the grants; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the application
packets for the grants contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the application
packets for the grants, File No. 126407-A, made a part of this ordinance
as if fully rewritten, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority, is approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into one or more contracts or memoranda of understanding, as appropriate, with NOACA
and the following entities to implement the grant as described in the

file: Maingate Business Development
Corporation, Glenville Community Development Corporation, Ohio Canal
Corridor, Downtown Cleveland Alliance, University Circle Incorporated, Little Italy Redevelopment Corporation.
Section 4. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 5. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1063-06, passed August 9,
2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 3. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with the following entities for
technical assistance and for professional services to analyze and plan
transportation improvements necessary to implement the grant: Famicos Foundation, Old Brooklyn Neighborhood Services and Stockyards
Redevelopment Organization.
Section 6. That existing Section 3
of Ordinance No. 1063-06, passed
August 9, 2006, is repealed.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on City Planning, Finance.

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1265-07.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 329.021, relating to
appeals from decisions of the City
Planning Commission.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 329.021, to read as follows:
Section 329.021 Appeals from Decisions of the City Planning Commission
Appeals from final decisions of
the City Planning Commission that
are appealable to the Board of Zoning Appeals, shall be made within
thirty (30) days of the decision.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on City Planning, Legislation, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1266-07.
By Council Member Turner.
An ordinance changing the Use Districts of property located on the north and south sides of Miles Avenue
between East 167th Street and the City Boundary to RA-2 Townhouse and Residence Industry as shown on the
attached map (Map Change No.2239, Sheet No. 10).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Miles Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of East 167th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of East 167th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation
of the centerline of an Unnamed Alley (20 feet wide);
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of said Unnamed Alley and along its easterly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of East 175th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of East 175th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation
of the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Billie Smith by deed dated November 8th, 2006 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200611081010, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel
Number 143-08-080;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation of said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line
thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the
southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Oscar Williams and Tracey L. Johnson-Williams by deed dated
May 8th, 2006 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200605080180, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga
County’s Permanent Parcel Number 143-08-030;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof said line also being
known as the easterly line of the Glen-Alta Subdivision as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 30, Page 30 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation
of the centerline of East 167th Street and the principal place of beginning,
and shaded on the attached map is changed to an RA-2 (Residential Attached) Townhouse District.

1460

August 15, 2007

The City Record

41

Section 2. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Miles Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of Lee Road;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation
of the easterly line of Sublot Number 7 in the Seaboyne Allotment Not Recorded, said parcel also being known
as Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number 143-10-001, said intersection being hereafter known as
the principal place of beginning;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the northerly line of Sublot Number 1 in said Seaboyne Allotment, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga
County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number 143-10-025;
Thence southeasterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of the Cleveland and Mahoning Valley Railway;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline to its intersection with the easterly line of the Miles-Melbourne
Subdivision as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 96, Page 39 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said easterly
line also being known as the City Limits Line;
Thence northerly along said easterly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation
of the easterly line of Sublot Number 7 in the Seaboyne Allotment Not Recorded, said parcel also being known
as Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number 143-10-001, said point being the principal place of
beginning;
and shaded on the attached map is changed to a Residence Industry District.
Section 3. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2239, Sheet No. 10, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1461

42

The City Record

August 15, 2007

Ord. No. 1267-07.
By Council Member Coats.
An ordinance changing the Use Districts of lands between East 152nd Street and Ivanhoe Road south of Saint
Clair Avenue to a Local Retail Business District as shown on the attached map (Map Change Number 2238,
Sheet 7).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of East 152nd Street at its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the
centerline of Ivanhoe Road;
Thence southerly along said centerline of East 152nd Street to its intersection with a line drawn approximately
450 feet northerly of and parallel to the northerly line of the Norfolk & Western Railroad;
Thence easterly along said parallel line in a straight line, perpendicular to the centerline of East 152nd Street,
to its intersection with the southwesterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to G.Z.T Inc. by deed dated October
4th, 1990 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V9006091021, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s
Permanent Parcel Number 115-19-002;
Thence southeasterly along said southwesterly line of said parcel so conveyed to G.Z.T to its intersection with
the northwesterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Lsr. Realty Co., LTD by deed dated May 31st, 1996 and
recorded in Auditor’s File Number V96051170005, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent
Parcel Number 115-19-001;
Thence continuing southerly along the prolongation of the southwesterly line of said parcel so conveyed to
G.Z.T to its intersection with the southeasterly line of said parcel so conveyed to Lsr. Realty Co., LTD.;
Thence northerly and easterly along said southeasterly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Ivanhoe Road;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of Ivanhoe Road and along its northwesterly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of East 152nd Street and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2238, Sheet No. 7 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1462

August 15, 2007

The City Record

43

Ord. No. 1268-07.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use Districts of parcels on the north and south sides of Lorain Road between
West 80th Street and West 73rd Street to a Local Retail Business District (Map Change No. 2240, Sheets 1 & 2).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Road at its intersection with the centerline of West 80th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 80th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation
of the centerline of Colgate Court;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Colgate Court to its intersection with the centerline of West
73rd Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 73rd Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with Lorain Road;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Lorain Road to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the centerline of West 73rd Street;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of West 73rd Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Grace Avenue;
Thence northwesterly along said prolongation of said centerline of Grace Avenue to its intersection with the
southerly prolongation of the centerline of West 74th Street;
Thence northeasterly along said prolongation of said centerline of West 74th Street and along its northerly
prolongation to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Nordica Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said easterly prolongation of said centerline of Nordica Avenue and along its
westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 80th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 80th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain
Road and the principal place of beginning;
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change
No. 2240, Sheet Numbers 1 & 2 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on
file in the office of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the
appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1463

The City Record

44
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 1269-07.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
West 7th Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of West 7th Street, as described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One-Hundred Acre Lot No.
282 and further bounded and described as follows:
BEGININNG at the intersection of
the centerlines of West 7th Street
(width varies) and University Court
(20 feet wide);
Thence South 52° 33' 40" West
along the centerline of University
Court, 45.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 37° 29' 21" East,
10.00 feet to the intersection of the
southeasterly right of way of University Court and the southwesterly
right of way of West 7th Street and
the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BEGININNG of the premises described
herein;

August 15, 2007

Thence South 37° 29' 21" East along
the southwesterly right of way of
West 7th Street, 10.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 52° 33' 40" East,
14.50 feet to a point;
Thence North 37° 29' 21" West,
10.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 52° 33" 40" West,
14.50 feet to the PRINCIPAL PLACE
OF
BEGININNG
and
containing
0.0033 acres of land as surveyed and
described by Edward B. Dudley, P.S.
6747 in March of 2007, being the
same, more or less but subject to all
legal highways, reservations, restrictions, and easements of record.
BASIS OF BEARINGS: The Centerline of West 7th Street as North
37° 29' 21" West as shown on the
Plat of Vacation recorded in Volume
350 Page 07 of C.C.M.R.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Res. No. 1270-07.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Brady, Cimperman (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Justin Avenue, S.W.

Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Justin Avenue, S.W., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Being all that portion of Justin
Avenue S.W. (25 feet wide) extending Westerly from the westerly line
of West 158th Street (50 feet wide)
to the westerly line of the Lynhurst
Allotment Re-Subdivision No. 1 as
shown by the recorded plat Volume
147 Page 28 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public
Service,
City
Planning,
Finance.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES READ IN FULL AND PASSED

Ord. No. 1233-07.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to pay as Moral Claims the sums opposite the
names of the claimants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Finance is authorized to pay as Moral Claims the sums opposite the names of
the following claimants and charged against the fund:

Claimant:

Claim No.

Amount

Division

Fund

Board-up

01-800501-672000

Department of Building and Housing – Board-up Division

Williams, Anita

11930

$ 3,500.00

Mangalsingh, Telucksingh – Cost of Board-up WAIVED reconcile charges only no payment
11962

$

818.00

Board-up

01-800501-672000

Saul, Jack

11950

$

Hopkins, Donald

11955

500.00

Fire

01-600302-672000

500.00

Fire

Merryman, Steven R.

11961

257.69

01-600302-672000

Fire

01-600302-672000

Public Safety Department – Fire

1464

The City Record

August 15, 2007

45

Public Safety Department – Police
Longly, Lillian

11907

250.00

Police

Springman, Jason J.

11933

$

500.00

Police

01-600202-672000
01-600202-672000

Golston, Betty

11938

500.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Hawkins, Kerry

11941

350.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Sanders, Constance

11944

500.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Ballance, Jared C.

11954

500.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Sorian, Tony and Pasquale

11958

45.34

Police

01-600202-672000

Douglas, Andre’

11960

250.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Police Impound

01-600202-672000

Public Safety Department – Police Impound
Edwards, George

11963

McKenna, Daniel G.

Cost of Storage and Fees WAIVED reconcile charges only no payment
11966

$ 7,500.00
$

686.47

Police Impound

01-600202-672000

Department of Public Service – Motor Vehicle Maintenance
Lewis, Charmyka

11968

$

174.37

MVM

01-400501-672000

$

500.00

Streets Division

01-400601-672000

$

140.00

Street Operations

01-400601-672000

Department of Public Service – Streets Division
Young, Mania

11959

Department of Public Service – Streets Operations
Fields, Larry

11936

Department of Parks, Recreation and Property – Urban Forestry – Tree Trimming
Cole, Michelle and Jeffrey

11920

$

160.00

Tree Trimming

01-700204-672000

Department of Parks, Recreation and Property – Urban Forestry
Dalton, Dannie

11926

391.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Rakes, Bonnie

11929

$

500.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Vance, Joseph R.

11931

1,155.60

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Hannah, Betty

11934

500.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Shompert, Frank D. and Helen

11935

250.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Fairbanks, Heather

11940

500.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Merrick, Bernard

11953

129.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Loehr, Janet

11957

250.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Vacant Lots

01-701217-672000

Department of Parks, Recreation and Property – Vacant Lots
Logan, Katherine

11943

$

64.50

Department of Public Service – Division of Waste
Hardaway, Beller

11915

15.00

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Williams, Junie M.

11921

$

322.00

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Graft, Linda

11928

10.99

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Section 2. That the authority of the Director of Finance to pay the amounts in this ordinance is conditioned
on a City-approved written acceptance by the claimant of the City’s offer to pay this claim within six months
from the effective date of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1465

The City Record

46
Ord. No. 1256-07.
By Council Members Brady, Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 3 and 5 of
Ordinance No. 2072-05, passed February 13, 2005, relating to the public improvement of constructing the
West 121st Street extension.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 3 and 5 of Ordinance No. 202705, passed February 13, 2005, are
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the West 121st Street extension
between Sector Avenue and Berea
Road; authorizing the Director of
Public Service to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement;
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire
for right-of-way purposes such real
property as is necessary to make the

August 15, 2007

improvement; and authorizing the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties to enter into one or more
contracts with American Funland to
purchase personal property associated with the real property and part
of the right-of-way acquisition.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized to acquire for right-of-way purposes such real property as is necessary to make the improvement.
The consideration to be paid for the
property shall not exceed fair market value, as determined by the
Board of Control, which determination shall consider the City’s purchase of personal property associated with the real property.
Section 5. That the cost of the
improvement and real and personal
property acquisition authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 364,
20 SF 373, 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20
SF 394, 20 SF 500, and 20 SF 506,
Request No. 166617.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 3 and 5 of Ordinance
No. 2027-05, passed February 13,
2005, are repealed.

Section 3. That Ordinance No. 202705, passed February 13, 2005 is supplemented by adding new Section 4a
to read as follows:
Section 4a. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the acquisition of personal property associated with the
real
property,
in
an
estimated
amount of $40,000, with American
Funland to effect the right-of-way
acquisition authorized by Ordinance
No. 2027-05.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1271-07.
By Council Members Zone, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to approve rates and charges for water and sewer service, and to amend Sections
535.05 and 543.02, as amended by Ordinance Nos. 778-06 and 779-06, passed June 5, 2006; relating to rates, fees, and
charges for water and water-related services and sewerage service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules, and regulations of the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for
water services, fixed by the Board of Control by Resolution No. ___________, adopted _______________, are approved.
Section 2. That Section 535.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
778-06, passed June 5, 2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 535.05 Affordability Programs
(a) Special Homestead Rate. Homesteads owned by a person sixty-five years of age or older whose total annual income does not exceed the limits listed below or homesteads owned by a person permanently and totally disabled whose total annual income does not exceed the limits listed below may be eligible for the special homestead rate established for the service district in which the homestead is located under Section 535.04 of these Codified Ordinances, provided the owner has obtained approval by their county of residence of a reduction in taxes
under the Homestead Exemption provisions of Chapter 323 of the Revised Code. The Director of Public Utilities
shall prescribe the application form for the homestead rates and have final approval of all applications.
Income Limits:
Year

Total Annual Income

2007
2008
2009
2010

$27,000
$27,800
$28,600
$29,500

(b) The Director of Public Utilities may establish an affordability program to provide assistance to eligible
low-income customers. The program may offer a reduction of twenty percent (20%) from the water bill for
residential customers who have been qualified to receive assistance through the federally funded Home Energy
Assistance Program. The Director of Public Utilities shall set the guidelines for administering the affordability
program and have final approval of all applications.
Section 3. That the rates, rules, and regulations of the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for
sewerage services, fixed by the Board of Control by Resolution No. __________, adopted ______________, are approved.
Section 4. That Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
779-06, passed June 5, 2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 543.02 Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland
(a) Regular and Homestead Rates.
Sewer Rate Schedule

Regular Rates
Homestead Rates

Minimum Charge
>1st MCF
Minimum Charge
>1st MCF

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

$8.28
$8.28
$4.91
$4.91

$10.28
$10.28
$6.10
$6.10

$11.53
$11.53
$6.84
$6.84

$12.03
$12.03
$7.13
$7.13

$12.53
$12.53
$7.43
$7.43

1466

The City Record

August 15, 2007

47

(b) Homesteads owned by a person sixty-five (65) years of age or older whose total annual income does not exceed
the limits listed below or homesteads owned by a person permanently and totally disabled whose total annual income
does not exceed the limits listed below may be eligible for the special homestead rate established under division (a)
of this section, provided the owner has obtained approval by their county of residence of a reduction in taxes under
the Homestead Exemption provisions of Chapter 323 of the Revised Code. The Director of Public Utilities shall prescribe the application form for the homestead rates and have final approval of all applications.
Income Limits:
Year
2007
2008
2009
2010

Total Annual Income
$27,000
$27,800
$28,600
$29,500

(c) The sewerage service charges within the City shall be increased to meet the funding requirements of the
Ohio Water Development Authority.
(d) Nothing contained in this section shall be held to authorize or require the payment of any sewer rental
charge by any tax-supported department of the City.
(e) All rates shall be effective on January 1 of each year.
Section 5. That Sections 535.05 and 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, as amended by Ordinance
Nos. 778-06 and 779-06, passed June 5, 2006, are repealed.
Section 6. That Council waives the notice requirements contained in division (b) of Section 111.072 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 7. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1272-07.
By Council Members Brady, Cummins and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to The MetroHealth System to encroach into the public right-of-way of Pearl Road with 10 banners to be attached to Cleveland Public
Power utility poles (by separate permission).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of Council,
to The MetroHealth System, 2500 Metrohealth Drive Cleveland, Ohio 44109-1998 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the
public right-of-way above Pearl Road by installing, using, and maintaining 10 banners to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power utility poles (by separate permission), at locations more fully described as follows:
LOCATION

POLE NUMBER

Pearl Road (Eastside of Street)
NE Corner Devonshire Ave.
2nd Pole N of Devonshire Ave.
3rd Pole N of Devonshire Ave.
4th Pole N of Devonshire Ave.
5th Pole N of Devonshire Ave.
1st Pole N of Altoona Road
2nd Pole N of Altoona Road
3rd Pole N of Altoona Road
4th Pole N of Altoona Road
SE Corner Devonshire Ave

#27
No Tag
#26
No Tag
#28
No Tag
#22
No Tag
#23
No Tag

POLE OWNER

CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP

Section 2. That Permittee may assign the permit only with the written consent of the Director of Public Service.
That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right, privilege, or
permission to use, or to attach or affix any object to, poles; Permittee shall obtain such permission from the
respective pole owner.
Section 3. That the encroaching structures permitted by this ordinance shall conform to plans and specifications
approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required
permits, including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall incorporate
such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The
permit shall be issued only when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, Permittee has properly indemnified the
City against any loss that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 5. That the Permit shall reserve reasonable right of entry to the City.
Section 6. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19. Nays 0.

1467

48
Ord. No. 1273-07.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 988-07,
passed July 11, 2007, relating to leases and purchases of vehicles and
equipment necessary to implement a
waste and recycling pilot program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 988-07, passed July 11,
2007, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
at least two contracts for the sixmonth lease of no more than a total
of thirty thousand carts, at least two
contracts for the six-month lease of
various automated trucks, and at
least two contracts for the six-month
lease of a total of twelve cart tippers, all to be leased without competitive bidding by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a
unit basis, for the Division of Waste
Collection and Disposal, Department
of Public Service. The lessors shall
be chosen by the Board of Control.
The Director of Public Service is
authorized to purchase the leased
carts at the termination of the sixmonth lease for a price to be determined by the Board of Control.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 988-07, passed July
11, 2007, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1274-07.
By Council Members Brady, Zone
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance declaring a moratorium on the issuance of
sidewalk and street obstruction permits to Service Providers as specified in this ordinance.
Whereas, under Sections 411.011
and 507.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
applicants must first obtain a permit from the Director of Public Service before placing any object or
property so as to obstruct the public’s use of the Public Right-of-Way;
and
Whereas, Service Providers have
applied to the City seeking to obtain
a permit to obstruct the Public
Right-of-Way
with
their
Above
Ground Facilities; and
Whereas, this Council determines
that the unregulated proliferation of
these Above Ground Facilities in the

The City Record
Public Right-of-Way constitutes a
public nuisance that interferes with
the safe and unobstructed use of the
Public
Right-of-Way
by
traffic,
pedestrians and adjoining and abutting property owners;
Whereas, this Council further determines that this public nuisance
can be abated by the promulgation
of regulations for the placement of
Above Ground Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way to facilitate the
needs of Service Providers while
protecting the health, safety and
welfare of the general public; and
Whereas, this Council is considering an ordinance for the use of the
Public Right-of-Way by Service Providers that includes obtaining a permit for Above Ground Facilities installations and regulates the placement of these facilities in the Public Right-of-Way, and obviates the
need for Service Providers to obtain
obstruction permits under Sections
411.011 and 507.06; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health, safety, or
welfare in that a moratorium on the
review of applications for and the
permitting of sidewalk and street
obstructions for Above Ground Facilities by Service Providers is necessary to enable this Council to consider reasonable regulation of the
installation of these facilities by
Service Providers and prevent unregulated proliferation of Above
Ground Facilities by Service Providers through the issuance of obstruction permits prior to either the
effective date of the City’s regulation of Above Ground Facilities or
October 1, 2007, whichever occurs
first; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, for the reasons
stated in the preamble to this ordinance, this Council declares a moratorium on review of applications for
and the issuance of obstruction permits under Sections 411.011 and
507.06 the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the placement of Above Ground Facilities in
the Public Right-of-Way by Service
Providers for a period commencing
on the effective date of this ordinance and ending on either the
effective date of an ordinance regulating the installation of Above
Ground Facilities by Service Providers in the Public Right-of-Way or
October 1, 2007, whichever date
occurs first, provided however that
the Director of Public Service may
issue an obstruction permit upon a
showing by a Service Provider of
the existence of an emergency situation that supports the immediate
installation of Above Ground Facilities to remedy the emergency.
Section 2. That, as used in this
ordinance, the following words and
phrases shall have the following
meanings:
(a)
“Above
Ground
Facilities”
means that portion of a System
located on the surface of the Public
Right-of-Way.
(b) “Facilities” means the plant,
equipment and property, including
but not limited to, cables, fibers,
wires, pipes, conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennae, electronics, poles,

1468

August 15, 2007
pipes, mains, plant, equipment and
other appurtenances located in the
Public Right-of-Way and used or to
be used to operate a System to
transmit, receive, distribute, provide
or offer a Service.
(c) “Public Right-of-Way” means
the surface of, and the space within, through, on, across, above or
below, the paved or unpaved portion
of any public street, public road,
public highway, public freeway,
public lane, public path, public
alley, public court, public sidewalk,
public boulevard, public parkway,
public drive, public easement and
any other land dedicated or otherwise designated for a compatible
public use, which is controlled by
the City.
(d) “Service Provider” means any
person who directly or indirectly
owns, controls, operates or manages
Facilities within the Public Rightof-Way used or to be used for the
purpose of operating a System to
transmit, receive, distribute or provide Services.
(e) “Service” means the offering
of water, sewer, electric, gas, telephone,
telecommunications,
cable
television, video service, information
or other utility-like service for a fee
directly to the public, or to the classes of users as to be effectively available to the public, regardless of the
Facilities used.
(f) “System” means a network of
Facilities
for
the
transmission
and/or distribution of a Service.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Pursuant to Rule 19 of the Rules
of Council, Council Member Kelley
elected to recuse himself from the
vote regarding Ordinance No. 127407. He further requested that the
City Record reflect his recusal.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1275-07.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing to amend the title and Sections
1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1664-05,
passed September 12, 2005, as amended by Ordinance No. 647-07, passed
May 7, 2007; to repeal Sections 4, 5,
and 6 of Ordinance No. 1664-05, as
amended; to supplement the ordinance by adding new Sections 4 and
5; and to renumber existing Section
7 to new Section 6; relating to demolition and environmental services at
the St. Michael’s Hospital site located at 5163 Broadway Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record

August 15, 2007
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 166405, passed September 12, 2005, as
amended by Ordinance No. 647-07,
passed May 7, 2007, are amended to
read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply for and accept
funding from Cuyahoga County in
the form of a loan and a grant to
partially finance demolition and
environmental services at the St.
Michael’s Hospital site, located at
5163 Broadway Avenue.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the approximate amount of
$515,000, from Cuyahoga County, to
provide financial assistance to partially finance demolition and environmental
services
at
the
St.
Michael’s site, located at 5163 Broadway Avenue; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to apply for and accept loan
assistance from Cuyahoga County in
an amount up to $700,000, to partially finance demolition and environmental
services
at
the
St.
Michael’s site, located at 5163 Broadway Avenue; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the loan, including but not

limited to, a mortgage; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the file.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1, 2, 4, 5, and 6 of Ordinance No. 1664-05, passed September
12, 2005, as amended by Ordinance
No. 647-07, passed May 7, 2007, are
repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 166405, passed September 12, 2005, as
amended by Ordinance No. 647-07,
passed May 7, 2007, is supplemented
by adding new Sections 4 and 5 to
read as follows:
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into any contracts or
execute any documents necessary to
effect the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 5. That the contract or
contracts authorized by this ordinance shall be approved by the
Director of Law and shall contain
other provisions that the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the City.
Section 4. That Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1664-05, passed September
12, 2005, as amended by Ordinance
No. 647-07, passed May 7, 2007, is
renumbered to new “Section 6”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

49
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1276-07.
By Council Members Lewis and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Cleveland
Building
and
Construction
Trades Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B)
of Section 4117.10 of the Revised
Code, this Council approves the collective bargaining agreement with
the Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council, under the
terms contained in File No. 1276-07A, for the period from April 1, 2007
through March 31, 2010.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1277-07.
By Council Members Lewis and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Ohio Nurses Association, Local 85;
and amending Section 23 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, relating to compensation for various
classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with Ohio Nurses Association, Local 85, under the terms contained in File No. 1277-07-A, for
the period from April 1, 2007 through March 31, 2010, and which provides, among other things, for an increase in
the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate Date of Increase*

2%

April 1, 2007

2%

April 1, 2008

2%

April 1, 2009

*Wage increases shall be effective as follows:
(a) If April 1st falls in the first week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing
at the beginning of that pay period; or
(b) If April 1st falls in the second week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing at the beginning of the next pay period.
Section 2. That Section 23 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 23. Ohio Nurses Association, Local 85. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications
shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1469

The City Record

50
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

August 15, 2007
Minimum
$20,800.00
$20,800.00
$23,146.64
$35,887.06
$39,098.75
$28,151.33
$23,647.11

Nurse II ..........................................................................................
Public Health Nurse ..................................................................
Public Health Nurse I...............................................................
Public Health Nurse II.............................................................
Public Health Nurse III ...........................................................
Public Health Nurse IV ...........................................................
Supervising Public Health Nurse .........................................

Maximum
$47,173.78
$47,173.78
$44,360.53
$45,930.52
$48,958.04
$53,428.25
$51,486.99

Section 3. That existing Section 23 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1278-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance to amend the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 832-07 passed June 11, 2007 relating
to banner permit to Slavic Village Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 832-07 passed June 11, 2007 are hereby amended to
read, respectively, as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Slavic Village
Development to encroach into the public right-of-way of Jones Road with 8 banners to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power utility poles.
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of Council,
to Slavic Village Development, 5620 Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44129 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the
public right-of-way above Jones Road by installing, using and maintaining 8 banners to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power utility poles at the locations more fully described as follows:
LOCATION

POLE NUMBER

Jones Road
Jones Road
Jones Road
Jones Road
Jones Road
Harvard Avenue (NE corner)
Dercum Avenue (west side)
Jones Road

No Tag
Sel-32
Sel-26
SE1-31
SE1-34
SE1-35
SE1-32-1
between Harvard and
Broadway Avenues

POLE OWNER
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP

Section 2. That the existing Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 832-07 passed June 11, 2007 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1279-07.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1194-04,
passed June 14, 2004 relating to
authorizing the Director of Community Development entering into a
grant agreement with Elderly Housing Development and Operations
Corporation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance 1194-04, passed June 14, 2004
is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not

to exceed $36,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166 and any
other funding source identified.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 1194-04, passed
June 14, 2004, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

1470

third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1280-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement with the St. Clair-Superior
Development Corporation for the
promotion of the ArtSpace/Cleveland Live/Work Initiative through
the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

August 15, 2007
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development to enter into an
agreement with the St. Clair-Superior
Development Corporation for the promotion of the ArtSpace/Cleveland
Live/Work Initiative for the public
purpose
of
promoting
residential
investment of older buildings churches and studios in the city of Cleveland through the use of Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1281-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with St. Vitus Development Corporation for the acquisition
of real property to provide housing
for senior citizens residing in the
city of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed and approved
the Home Repair Program that will
provide home repair assistance to
City of Cleveland residents, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with St. Vitus Development Corporation who will be acting as an
agent for the City of Cleveland for
the acquisition of real property
located at 1161 East 61st Street
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 for the public
purpose of providing housing to
senior citizens residing in the city
of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1282-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an agreement
with
The
Downtown
Cleveland
Alliance for the “Downtown Digs,”
A Guide to Living Downtown Cleveland Project through the use of
Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with the
Downtown Cleveland Alliance for the
“Downtown Digs,” A Guide to Living
Downtown Cleveland Project for the
public purpose of increasing residential growth opportunities for City residents
in
downtown
Cleveland
through the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $2,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1283-07.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Sky Bank Triathlon,
on August 5, 2007, sponsored by Sky
Bank and presented by Pacific Sports.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the
holding
of
the
Sky
Bank
Triathlon, sponsored by Sky Bank
and presented by Pacific Sports on
August 5, 2007, Start: Voinovich
Park; Swim Course: Northcoast Harbor area; Bike Course: Shoreway
from East 9th to West Boulevard;
Run Course: Shoreway, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section

1471

51
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1284-07.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation to stretch a banner at East 152nd & Ivanhoe, for the
period from August 10, 2007 to September 9, 2007, inclusive, to announce the Wake Up Call rally at
the Collinwood Sports Complex.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue
a permit to the Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation to
stretch a banner at East 152nd &
Ivanhoe, for the period from August
10, 2007 to September 9, 2007, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

52
Ord. No. 1285-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the St. Clair Superior Development
Corporation to stretch banners on
East 72nd & St. Clair and East 53rd
& St. Clair, for the period from
August 8, 2007 to August 31, 2007,
inclusive, to announce the annual St.
Clair Superior Neighborhood Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue
a permit to the Glenville Festival
Committee to install, maintain and
remove banners on, East 72nd & St.
Clair and East 53rd & St. Clair, for
the period from August 8, 2007 to
August 31, 2007,inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a banner will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banner
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1286-07.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center to stretch banners across the
south side of Kinsman (E13 86 CPT
B105-355) and the north side of Kinsman (CEI 03853), for the period
from August 8, 2007 to September 7,
2007, inclusive, to announce the
Sanaa Community Flea Market.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Unity Baptist
Church to install, maintain and
remove banners across the south
side of Kinsman (E13 86 CPT B105355) and the north side of Kinsman
(CEI 03853), for the period from
August 8, 2007 to September 7, 2007,
inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banner and
said
banner
shall
be
removed
promptly upon the expiration of
said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1287-07.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement
with
Bellaire-Puritas
Development Corporation for the
Home Repair Program to provide
home repair assistance to Cleveland residents through the use of
Ward
20
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed and approved
the Home Repair Program that will
provide home repair assistance to
City of Cleveland residents, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Bellaire-Puritas Development
Corporation who will be acting as
an agent for the City of Cleveland
for the implementation of the Home
Repair Program for the public purpose of providing home repair assistance to the citizens of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not

1472

August 15, 2007
to exceed $99,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1288-07.
By Council Members Turner, Polensek, Kelley, Westbrook and Brady.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 100307 passed on June 11, 2007 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of
Community Development to enter
into an agreement with the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Preservation Program
through the use of Ward(s) 1, 11, 16,
18 and 19 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1003-07 passed June 11,
2007 is hereby amended to read as
follow:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development to enter
into an agreement effective March
1, 2007 with the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home
Preservation Program for the public purpose of promoting restoration and preservation of historic
homes in the city of Cleveland
through the use of Ward(s) 1, 11,
16, 18 and 19 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1003-07 passed June 11,
2007 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1289-07.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Public Health to enter into an
agreement with the Wendy Park
Foundation for the Great Lakes
Expo through the use of Ward 17
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Public Health Department is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Wendy Park Foundation
for the Great Lakes Expo for the
public purpose of providing education to city of Cleveland residents
promoting the preservation of the
Great Lakes and environmental ecology through the use of Ward 17
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1290-07.
By Council Member Turner.
An emergency ordinance to change
the name of Miles Heights Park to
Arthur R. Johnston Playground.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of Miles
Heights Park located in Ward 1,
shall hereafter be changed to Arthur
R. Johnston Playground, and that
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties is authorized and
directed
to
take
the
necessary
action to affect said name change
and to post the proper signs.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1344-07.
By Council Member Turner.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement with the Harvard Community Service Center for the Youth
Sports Football Recreation Program
through the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the Harvard Community
Service Center for the Youth Sports
Football Recreation Program for the
public purpose of providing organized
recreational
activities
for
youth residing in the City of Cleveland through the use of Ward 1
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $3,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1345-07.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 114507 passed July 11, 2007 as it pertains
to authorizing the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties to enter
into an agreement with the Dove
Park Panthers Youth Association
for the Youth Sports Football Recreation Program through the use of
Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1145-07 passed July 11,
2007 is hereby amended to read as
follow:

1473

53
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the Dove Park Panthers
Youth Association for the Youth
Sports Football Recreation Program
for the public purpose of providing
organized recreational activities for
youth residing in the City of Cleveland through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1145-07 passed July 11,
2007 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1346-07.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 114607 passed July 11, 2007 as it pertains
to authorizing the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties to enter
into an agreement with the Umoja
and Kuumba Youth Association for
the Youth Sports Football Recreation Program through the use of
Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No.1146-07 passed July 11,
2007 is hereby amended to read as
follow:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the Umoja and Kuumba
Youth Association for the Youth
Sports Football Recreation Program
for the public purpose of providing
organized recreational activities for
youth residing in the City of Cleveland through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1146-07 passed July 11,
2007 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

54
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1291-07.
By Council Members Zone, Brady,
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Keane, Kelley, Pierce Scott, Polensek and Westbrook.
An emergency resolution fixing
the determination by Council to:
approve a standard for interconnection of customer-owned distributed
generation to the Division of Cleveland Public Power’s distribution system; to approve a standard for net
metering service by the Division of
Cleveland Public Power for such
interconnected customers as may
request it; to defer any determination to adopt time-based electric
rates until the Division of Cleveland
Public Power has completed further
study of their feasibility; and to
adopt such legislation as may be
necessary to allow the Division of
Cleveland Public Power to determine whether time-based rates are
practically feasible, and if feasible,
can be implemented successfully.
Whereas, the Energy Policy Act
of 2005 amends Section 111(d) of the
Public Utility Regulatory Policies
Act of 1978 (“PURPA”) by requiring
the governing bodies of electric
facilities with annual retail sales of
electric energy greater than 500 million kilowatt hours to consider and
determine whether to adopt new
standards for these facilities; and
Whereas, the Division of Cleveland Public Power is subject to the
terms of these amendments; and
Whereas, the standards set forth
in these amendments include the following: Standard (11): Net Metering;
Standard (14): Time-Based Metering
and Communications; and Standard
(15): Interconnection; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland is the governing body
of the Division of Cleveland Public
Power; and
Whereas, the Public Utilities Committee of the Council of the City of
Cleveland conducted public hearings
on November 30, 2006 and May 23,
2007, and a public workshop on
April 2, 2007, addressing the PURPA
standards for Interconnection, Net
Metering, and Time-Based Metering
and Communications; and
Whereas, the Public Utilities Committee of the Council of the City of
Cleveland solicited and received testimony and comment on these standards; and
Whereas, the Department of Public
Utilities submitted a Report and Recommendations on May 11, 2007 to the
Public Utilities Committee of the
Council of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, on the basis of the testimony, comment, and evidence summarized in the Report and Recommendations and contained in Council File No. 1291-07-A, this Council
makes its determinations on the
PURPA standards for Interconnection, Net Metering, and Time-Based
Metering and Communications, as
set forth in Sections 1 through 6 of
this Resolution; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engi-

The City Record
neers (IEEE) Standard 1547, as referenced by PURPA Interconnection
Standard (15), should be adopted for
interconnection of customer-owned
distributed generation to the Division of Cleveland Public Power’s
distribution system.
Section 2. That the PURPA Net
Metering Standard 11 should be
adopted.
Section 3. That this Council should
defer any decision to legislate timebased electric rates until the Division of Cleveland Public Power has
completed further study of their feasibility.
Section 4. That this determination
to defer any decision to legislate
time-based electric rates is based
upon the Council’s findings that
more research is needed to establish
whether implementation of timebased rates can be achieved in a
cost-effective manner, and whether
sufficient demand exists among
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power’s customer classes.
Section 5. That legislation implementing the determinations of this
Council expressed in this Resolution
shall be enacted as necessary to
implement the standards approved
by this Resolution.
Section 6. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1292-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Britt, Conwell, Kelley, Lewis, Santiago,
Turner,
Westbrook,
White,
Zone and Cummins.
An emergency resolution supporting House of Representatives Bill
1506, introduced by Representatives
Markey and Platts, to raise fuel efficiency standards to 35 miles per gallon by 2018, and opposing House of
Representatives
Bill
2927,
introduced by Representatives Hill and
Terry, to reduce the increase in fuel
efficiency standards to only 32 miles
per gallon by 2022.
Whereas, support for increasing
fuel efficiency standards is strong
due to high gas prices, dependence
on foreign oil, and concern over
global warming.
Whereas, the Markey-Platts bill
builds on the bipartisan vote in the
Senate to raise fuel efficiency standards to 35 miles per gallon by 2020,
and expedites this standard by 2018.
Whereas, this 4% annual increase
in fuel efficiency standards for all
cars and light trucks is supported
by President George W. Bush, national security experts, and the
National Academy of Sciences, whose
findings show this standard both
technologically
and
economically
feasible.
Whereas, by the year 2020, the
Markey-Platts bill would reduce oil
use by 1.6 million barrels per day
and save drivers $37 billion per year
at the pump.

1474

August 15, 2007
Whereas,
the
counter-proposal
Hill-Terry bill would prevent this
significant progress by reducing the
increase in fuel efficiency standards
to only 32 miles per gallon by 2022.
Whereas, the Hill-Terry bill would
only increase fuel efficiency annually by 1.8%, and bars the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration from setting standards beyond
a 35 mile-per-gallon level.
Whereas, the Hill-Terry bill also
allows automakers to delay fuel
economy compliance for up to five
years based on promises of future
improvement, and threatens greenhouse gas limits for vehicles enacted by California and adopted by
other states.
Whereas, proposed House Bill 1506,
if passed, will benefit the City of
Cleveland by saving drivers the most
money at the gas pump, reducing
dependence on foreign oil, and reducing global warming, while House
Bill 2927, if passed, provides little
positive impact and contains negative loopholes and provisions; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports House of Representatives Bill
1506, introduced by Representatives
Markey and Platts, to raise fuel efficiency standards to 35 miles per gallon by 2018, and opposes House of
Representatives
Bill
2927,
introduced by Representatives Hill and
Terry, to reduce the increase in fuel
efficiency standards to only 32 miles
per gallon by 2022.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
Representative Markey, Representative Platts, House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi, and Mayor Frank Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1293-07.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor
Permit at 10330 Lorain Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 598-07, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit to 10330
Lorain Avenue by Resolution No.
598-07 adopted by the Council on
April 16, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

August 15, 2007
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit to Sophia Tirado,
DBA Lucky’s, 10330 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 8945413, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 598-07, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1294-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 3795 East 71st
Street, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 9804010 owned by
X Driver, Inc., DBA Polish Village,
3795 East 71st Street, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1295-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 3614 East 65th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8912747 owned by Jerrich, Inc., DBA
Karbs Tavern, 3614 East 65th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

1475

55
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1296-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3367 East 65th
Street, 1st floor front.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7500355 owned by Rome
Jack, Inc., DBA, Johnnies Beverage,
3367 East 65th Street, 1st floor front,
Cleveland, Ohio 44127, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

56
Res. No. 1297-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 4136 East 71st
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 23759120030
owned by Albet Dworznik, DBA
Victory Tavern, 4136 East 71st
Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1298-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3850 East 65th
Street, 1st floor only.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2760315 owned by Five
Star Robin, Inc., DBA Mike’s Food
Mart, 3850 East 65th Street, 1st floor
only, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1476

August 15, 2007
Res. No. 1299-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 7020 Harvard Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the
renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2434505 owned by
Eden Oil, DBA Harvard Gas USA,
7020 Harvard Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

August 15, 2007
Res. No. 1300-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 4257 East 71st
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4895593 owned by Krunal, Inc., DBA 1 2 3 Quik Stop, 4257
East 71st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of
Council be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies
of this resolution, together with
two copies of a letter of objection
and two copies of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in
Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1301-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 5212 Fleet
Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

The City Record
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8564054 owned
by Steven James Enterprises, 5212
Fleet Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1302-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 5407 Fleet Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operat-

1477

57
ed his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8947247 owned by Titash,
Inc., DBA Ghazi Market, 5407 Fleet
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1303-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 7018 Union Avenue, 1st floor
front and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure provid-

58
ing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
5729924 owned by Ransom McDowell, Jr., 7018 Union Avenue, first
floor front and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1304-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 5421 Fleet Avenue
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2759404 owned by 5421 Fleet Avenue,
LLC, DBA Fleet’s Finest, 5421 Fleet
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1305-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit at 1299 West 9th
Street, 1st floor and basement, and
repealing
Resolution
No.
1093-07
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Midwest Entertainment Venture,
LLC, DBA Anatomy, 1299 West 9th
Street,
1st
floor
and
basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
No. 5930856, by Resolution No. 109307 adopted by the Council on July
11, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Midwest Entertainment Venture,
LLC, DBA Anatomy, 1299 West 9th
Street, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent No.
5930856 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 109307 containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

1478

August 15, 2007
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1306-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 618
Prospect Avenue, 2nd floor only.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 9271908
owned by View Cleveland, LLC, 618
Prospect Avenue, 2nd floor only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

August 15, 2007
Res. No. 1307-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership and renewal of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at
1204 Old River Road, and repealing
Resolution Nos. 758-06 and 1408-06,
objecting to said transfer and renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Kaos in the Flats, DBA Kaos,
1204 Old River Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 4462671
and 4262671-0003 by Resolution No.
758-06 adopted by the Council on
April 24, 2006, and to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permanent Number 5337947,
by Resolution No. 1408-06 adopted by
the Council on August 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objections to the above
transfer and renewal and consents
to said transfer and renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
Kaos in the Flats, DBA Kaos, 1204
Old River Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 4462671
and 4262671-0003 by Resolution No.
758-06 adopted by the Council on
April 24, 2006, and to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permanent Number 5337947,
by Resolution No. 1408-06 adopted by
the Council on August 9, 2006, containing such objections, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer and renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1308-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 3040-48 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other

The City Record
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8980519 owned
by Tom’s Seafood Restaurant, LLC,
DBA Tom’s Seafood Restaurant,
3040-48 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1309-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 6702 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Marijan, Inc., 6702 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 5534086 to Topcat, LLC,
DBA Topcats Pub & Grill, 6702 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 8988551; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health

1479

59
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Marijan, Inc., 6702 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 5534086 to Topcat, LLC, DBA
Topcats Pub & Grill, 6702 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 8988551; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1310-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 6524 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or

60
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0251410 owned by ARA
Enterprise, Inc., DBA TK’s Tavern,
6524 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44103, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1311-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit at 7109 Central Avenue, 1st floor
only.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,

The City Record
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
5432683 owned by Saeed H. Mahmoud, DBA Central Foods, 7109 Central Avenue, 1st floor only, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1312-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 3403 Croton
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor

1480

August 15, 2007
Permit, Permit No. 9146810 owned by
Ulrich Brothers, Inc., DBA Truckers
Tavern, 3403 Croton Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1313-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6
Liquor Permit at 5803 Outwaite Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2861706 owned by
Sylvia Foxworth, DBA Johnnie’s
South of the Border, 5803 Outwaite
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.

August 15, 2007
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1314-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2747 Cedar Avenue,
1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 71337770005 owned by
Quasem, Inc., 2747 Cedar Avenue, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal

The City Record
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1315-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3291 East 49th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 3504707 owned by Issam
Hajj, DBA F & H Market, 3291 East
49th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44127,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

1481

61
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1316-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3337 Central Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4034257 owned by Pamela
Hubbard, DBA McClain’s Market,
3337
Central
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44115, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

62
Res. No. 1317-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3609 Community
College Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit,
Permit
No.
40739630001
owned by Curtis Hunt, DBA Right
On Time Food & Beverage, 3609
Community College Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1318-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 4621 Central Avenue, 1st floor only.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit,
Permit
No.
02776290015
owned
by
Paul
Armond,
DBA
Paul’s Serve Rite Food Market,
4621 Central Avenue, 1st floor only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1482

August 15, 2007
Res. No. 1319-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4643 Broadway
Avenue, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 76857450005 owned by
Salina, Inc., DBA Broadway Deli, 4643
Broadway Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44127, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

August 15, 2007
Res. No. 1320-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4818 Pershing Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4253489 owned by Jatz,
Inc., DBA Clark Store, #1272, 4818
Pershing Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44127, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1321-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1,
C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to 7515
Kinsman Road.

The City Record
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1, C2
and D6 Liquor Permit from 7515
Kinsman, Inc., DBA Kinsman Shoprite, 7515 Kinsman Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44104, Permanent Number 7638473
to Rite Beverage, Inc., DBA Kinsman Shoprite, 7515 Kinsman Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 74016270005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and D6
Liquor Permit from 7515 Kinsman,
Inc., DBA Kinsman Shoprite, 7515
Kinsman
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 7638473 to
Rite Beverage, Inc., DBA Kinsman
Shoprite, 7515 Kinsman Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
74016270005; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force

1483

63
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1322-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 5346 Dolloff Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 03397640010 owned by
Awad Food Mart, Inc., DBA Dairy
Mart, #4453, 5346 Dolloff Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44127, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

64
Res. No. 1323-07.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 1503 Spring Road, 1st
floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the
renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 4814048 owned by Koubba,
Inc., 1503 Spring Road, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1324-07.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 2011 Broadview Road, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4174557 owned by
JBK Sales, Inc., DBA Wedge Inn,
2011 Broadview Road, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1484

August 15, 2007
Res. No. 1325-07.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 5200 Memphis Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7315819 owned by Revenue, Inc., 5200 Memphis Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44144, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

August 15, 2007
Res. No. 1326-07.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit at 4262 Fulton Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 0727530
owned by BKJJ, LLC, DBA Alcove
Lounge, 4262 Fulton Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1327-07.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 4256 Pearl Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2385085 owned by E Enterprises,
Inc., 4256 Pearl Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1328-07.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 14301
Kinsman Road.

1485

65
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Moran Foods,
Inc., DBA Save A Lot 623, 14301
Kinsman Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
Permanent Number 61433910035; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Moran Foods, Inc.,
DBA Save A Lot 623, 14301 Kinsman
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number 61433910035; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

66
Res. No. 1329-07.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 3218 East
135th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from 3218 Sophie,
Inc., DBA Eastside Groceries, 3218
East 135th Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number
8871284 to M & H Food Mart, Inc.,
DBA Eastside Grocery, 3218 East
135th Street, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
5379065; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does
hereby record its objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from 3218 Sophie,
Inc., DBA Eastside Groceries, 3218
East 135th Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number 8871284 to M & H Food Mart,
Inc., DBA Eastside Grocery, 3218
East 135th Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number 5379065; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies

The City Record
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1330-07.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 3837 Ridge Road and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0083955 owned by Aizic, Inc., 3837
Ridge Road and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

1486

August 15, 2007
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1331-07.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit at 8802 Superior Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 1397-06, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 8802
Superior Avenue by Resolution No.
1397-06 adopted by the Council on
August 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 8802 Superior Hawk, Inc., DBA Superior Food
Market,
8802
Superior
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent
Number 2455399-0005 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1397-06, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1332-07.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit at 788 East
200th Street and repealing Resolution No. 1316-06, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 788
East 200th Street by Resolution No.
1316-06 adopted by the Council on
August 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said re-

August 15, 2007
newal based upon and pursuant to
a cooperation agreement between
Councilmember Michael D. Polensek
and Applicant, Kawaljit Kaur, President of Ash Kirat Corporation, Inc.;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Harleen,
Inc., DBA Convenient Food Mart,
#3-030, 788 East 200th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number
3606223 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 131606, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1333-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1 and D2
Liquor Permit at 3203 West 25th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1 and D2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8871311 owned by 3203
West 25th, Inc., DBA Jay’s Market,
3203 West 25th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1334-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3353 West 44th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0340206 owned by Khaldieh Awadallah, DBA Storer Delicatessen, 3353 West 44th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,

1487

67
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1335-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit at 3355 West
46th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 9256090
owned by Verlie’s Café, Inc., 3355
West 46th Street, 1st floor and basement only, Cleveland, Ohio 44102
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

68
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1336-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 4105 Clark Avenue,
1st and 2nd floors and basement
front.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8367381 owned by Somer
Day, Inc., Thomas G. Lobe, 4105
Clark Avenue, 1st and 2nd floors
and basement front, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

The City Record
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1337-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2 and D6
Liquor Permit at 4701 Storer Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1709318 owned by
Convenient Food Mart, Inc., #348,
4701 Storer Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

1488

August 15, 2007
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1338-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 5004 Storer
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 7709514 owned by
Santiago
Sanchez
Entertainment
Group LLC, 5114 Storer Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

August 15, 2007
Res. No. 1339-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 4322 Clark
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Abaza-MJR,
Inc., 4322 Clark Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
Permanent
Number
0013040 to Joe & Son II, Inc., DBA
QS Gas & Go, 4322 Clark Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 4294025; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Abaza-MJR,
Inc., 4322 Clark Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
Permanent
Number
0013040 to Joe & Son II, Inc., DBA
QS Gas & Go, 4322 Clark Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 4294025; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1340-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit at 5110 Clark Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
91610350020 owned by United Petroleum Marketing, LLC, DBA UPM
#207, 5110 Clark Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44102, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

1489

69
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1341-07.
By Council Member Turner.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit at 4480 East 143rd Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
1130731 owned by Robert Henry Burton, DBA Missy’s, 4480 East 143rd
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

70
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1342-07.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 5901
Detroit Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Moran Foods,
Inc., DBA Save A Lot #622, 5901 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permanent Number 61433910030; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Moran Foods, Inc.,
DBA Save A Lot #622, 5901 Detroit
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 61433910030; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies

The City Record
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1343-07.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 15518 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6665197 owned by Palsun,
Inc., DBA Convenient Express, 15518
St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section

1490

August 15, 2007
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1366-07.
By Council Members Turner, White,
Johnson, Cleveland, Britt, Pierce
Scott, Coats, Cimperman, Santiago,
Kelley, Westbrook, Sweeney, Keane,
Conwell, Brancatelli and Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting the Cuyahoga County Commissioners’ majority vote to raise the
county sales tax by a quarter of a
cent to help pay for a Medical Mart
and convention center in downtown
Cleveland.
Whereas, Cuyahoga County commissioners voted 2 to 1 to raise the
county sales tax a quarter of a cent
as part of plans to attract a Medical
Mart linked to a new convention
center; and
Whereas, the majority Commissioners decided to raise the tax
without a public vote in part because they wanted to move the project forward quickly and convince
the Merchandise Mart’s board of
directors the region is serious about
doing the project; and
Whereas, Cleveland has suffered
serious losses in manufacturing employment but significant gains in
the health care industry with an
international reputation for quality
medical care and cutting edge innovations and research; and
Whereas, the Medical Mart would
have an undeniably positive effect
upon the economy and people of
Cleveland in numerous ways; and
Whereas, the Medical Mart would
bring new hope and stability for
Cleveland citizens that are employed
in the hospitality and construction
industries; and
Whereas, according to the Convention and Visitors Bureau of
Greater Cleveland, nearly two-thirds
of those employed in the hospitality
industry live in the City of Cleveland, and slightly more than half
are minorities; and
Whereas, Cleveland’s hospitality
sector, which has demonstrated success in moving employees up the
ranks faster than other industries,
has suffered as a result of declining
convention business in Cleveland,
but the proposed Medical Mart and
convention and Trade Show Facility
will grow our hospitality sector, create new jobs, and protect existing
jobs; and
Whereas, many Cleveland residents are benefiting from downtown
investments, providing a range of
employment opportunities, including
entry-level jobs need by those leaving welfare roles; and

August 15, 2007
Whereas, the Medical Mart will
reinvigorate downtown Cleveland
by attracting thousands of new visitors annually for medical trade
shows and other industry conventions that will result in increased
spending at downtown businesses
such as restaurants and hotels; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
will be the primary beneficiary of
increased income tax revenues as a
result of job creation from the new
facility, and the attraction of new
business in hospitality and medicalrelated industries; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
will benefit from higher property
taxes from downtown businesses,
directly benefiting the Cleveland
Municipal School District; and
Whereas, the Medical Mart would
help prepare Cleveland citizens for
jobs in the growing health care
industry and train our young people
for the jobs of the future; and
Whereas,
our
City,
Cuyahoga
County, the Cleveland Municipal
School District, higher educational
institutions
including
Cuyahoga
Community College and Cleveland
State University, along with the private sector partners have already
recognized the need for increased
workforce development in degreed
and non-degreed health care and
technology jobs; and
Whereas, this Council will work
with the developer, Merchandise
Mart Properties, Inc. to assure that
we maximize the Medical Mart to
integrate with and further continue
progress of workforce development
aimed at training young people and
displaced workers to prepare for
jobs in our growing medical and
health care industry; and
Whereas, the increase in business
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport from the thousands of new
visitors who would come to Cleveland annually from across the country because of the one-or-a-kind medical mart, would help preserve the
airport as an airline hub; and
Whereas, the Medical Mart is an
opportunity that makes economic
sense and allows the City to take
control of our future by leveraging
our strengths in the medical industry, hospitality sector, technology,
bioscience and manufacturing sectors; and
Whereas, people from all over the
world take advantage of our health
care assets, and with the proposed
Medical Mart and Trade Show and
Convention Facility, we have the
opportunity to capitalize on our
health care strengths and spark a
real turn-around for the City’s economy and image; and
Whereas, this Council supports
jobs and investing in the future of
citizens, our workforce and our
economy; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Supporting the Cuyahoga County Commissioners’ majority vote to raise the county sales tax
by a quarter of a cent to help pay
for a Medical Mart and convention
center in downtown Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
Cuyahoga County Commissioners,
Jimmy Dimora, Tim Hagan, and
Peter Lawson Jones, and Mayor
Frank Jackson.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 16.
Nays 3.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli,
Britt, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats,
Conwell, Johnson, Keene, Kelley,
Lewis, Santiago, Turner, Westbrook
and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Members Cummins, Polensek and Reed.
Absent: Council Members Pierce
Scott and White.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1954-06
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide various information technology services, on an
as-needed basis.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 637-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of grounds
maintenance equipment and transportation trailers, including labor
and materials for maintaining and
repairing existing equipment, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 694-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development
Block Grant funds for strategic
acquisition, redevelopment, and rehabilitation of land and vacant,
abandoned, boarded structures within the City for redevelopment opportunities; and authorizing the Director of Community Development to
enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies, entities, or
individuals to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1491

71
Ord. No. 795-07
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 77th, East 79th,
Quincy Avenue to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 823-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
Cognos Corporation to maintain existing software licenses, to acquire additional software licenses, and to perform professional services for operation of the Financial Information System, including software maintenance
for a period up to five years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 825-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain plate trucks, for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 827-07.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the Alger Road
area sewer system, which may include but not be limited to installing
manholes and catch basins, and
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 829-07.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the East 177th
Street area sewer system, which
may include but not be limited to

72
installing
manholes
and
catch
basins, and authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into one
or more public improvement contracts for the making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 831-07.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of rehabilitating and
replacing the West 127th Street area
sewer system, which may include but
not be limited to installing manholes
and catch basins, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 834-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to paint 800
MHz radio communication towers,
cables, and mounted structures for
the Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 893-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with KUBRA Data Transfer Ltd. for
professional services necessary to
design, integrate, install, operate,
test and maintain on-line bill paying
and electronic bill viewing capabilities, and other e-billing solutions,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, including training, support,
and maintenance, for a period up to
one year.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 895-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of duct line,
street lighting bases and pull boxes,
including labor and materials necessary to install, repair, replace or
maintain the duct line, street light-

The City Record
ing bases and pull boxes, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 896-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of test equipment, including labor and materials
for the maintenance, repair, or replacement of test equipment, and
training as nec essary, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 897-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement
contracts
of
utility
poles and labor and materials to
test, remove, and replace deteriorating utility poles, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 914-07.
By Council Members Lewis, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
portion of East 66th Place.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 984-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Ventyx for professional services necessary to maintain Ventyx
Customer Suite, Service Suite and
Asset Suite software, including new
releases, patches and fixes, technical support and product research
and improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1026-07.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 176-A-05,

1492

August 15, 2007
passed May 2, 2005, to appropriate an
amount per paid ticket for a photoenforced traffic offenses to the credit of the Clerk of the Cleveland
Municipal Court and the Parking Violations Bureau for the costs incurred
by them in conducting the program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1028-07.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1834-06,
passed March 12, 2007, relating to
authorizing the Director of Law to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Criminal Justice Services Agency for
the 2007 Team Approach to Domestic
Violence program (Prosecution).
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
2, line 5, strike “$61,888.00” and
insert “$48,633.67”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1029-07.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by enacting
new Sections 149.11 and 413.032
thereof, and to amend Section 5 of
Ordinance No. 176-A-05, passed May
2, 2005, to authorize the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Clerk of
the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
enter into contract for professional
services to collect unpaid judgments, costs, and other receivables
of the Court, including unpaid tickets for photo-enforced red light and
speeding offenses and unpaid parking infraction judgments.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1030-07.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 181.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2725-89,
passed December 18, 1989, relating
to purchases not exceeding $10,000.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1031-07.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 181.12 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2725-89,

August 15, 2007
passed December 18, 1989, relating to
emergency purchases and contracts.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1032-07.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 181.103 relating to
recognition of electronic records and
signatures.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on
Legislation,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at new Section
181.103, insert new division (a)(5) to
read as follows:
“(5) “Reverse auction” means a
purchasing process in which offerors submit bids or proposals in competing to sell services or supplies
though a internet software system
in accordance with the rules and
regulations adopted by the Director
of Finance under division (m) of
this section.”; and reletter existing
division (a)(5) to “(6)”.
2. In Section 1, at new division
(a)(g) of Section 181.103, line 2, and
at new division (a)(h) of Section
181.103, line 2, strike “law” in both
places and insert “requirement”.
3. In Section 1, at new Section
181.103, insert new divisions (k), (l),
and (m) to read as follows:
“(k) Whenever the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies determines that the use of a reverse auction is an advantageous method to
purchase services or supplies, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies may purchase services or supplies by reverse auction.
(l) If a law or ordinance requires
a purchase of services or supplies by
a competitive sealed bid or sealed
request for proposal, a contract to
purchase services or supplies made
though a reverse auction or an electronic record received through an
internet software system in accordance with the rules and regulations
adopted by the Director of Finance
pursuant to division (m) of this section satisfies the requirement.
(m) The Director of Finance may
adopt rules and regulations to carry
out the provisions of this section,
including but not limited to setting
forth all of the following, which
shall be effective thirty (30) days
after publication in the City Record:
(1) The requirements for the
method of creation, maintenance,
and security of electronic records
and electronic signatures.
(2) If electronic records is signed
by electronic means, all of the following:
A. The type of electronic signature required;
B. The manner and format in
which the electronic signature must
be affixed to the electronic record;
(3) The security procedure that evidences the person to which the electronic record, electronic signature, or
bid or proposal submitted though a
reverse auction is attributable.
(4) Control processes and procedures as appropriate to ensure adequate preservation, integrity, security, confidentiality, and auditability
of electronic records and bids and
proposals offerors submit in a reverse auction.

The City Record
(5) The procedural and substantive requirements for the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
purchase services or supplies by
reverse auction.
(6) Any other required attributes
for electronic records, electronic
signatures, or reverse auctions that
are specified for corresponding nonelectronic records, nonelectronic signatures, or nonelectronic procurement practices that are reasonably,
commercially, or legally necessary
under the circumstances.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1034-07.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 181.102 relating to the
authorization to purchase software
updates, licenses, maintenance and
technical support.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1035-07.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of long distance telephone service for all City
voice and fax lines, for the Division
of Information Technology and Services, Department of Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1036-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants computer software developers, vendors, or computer software vendors to provide professional services necessary to implement
Phases 3 and 4 of the Customer
Information System/Customer Relations Management System; authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more amendments for various professional
services
contracts
and
leases for the Project; and authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services
for the Project; and authorizing the
Director to lease certain telecommunications and network lines and
other related facilities from AT&T,
or its successor in interest, necessary to implement the Project.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1493

73
Ord. No. 1037-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to design, print, format,
and distribute water and sewer bills,
bill inserts, and other billing-related
notices, for a period up to two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1038-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with CASNET for professional services necessary to support and maintain scanner hardware used as part
of the OnBase Document Management System, for a period of one
year with a one-year option to
renew.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1039-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Datamatic, Ltd. for professional services necessary to provide
maintenance and repair of meter
reading, collections, investigations
and meter maintenance systems,
including hardware and softwaresupport based, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one year, with
four one-year options to renew.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1040-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 2077-06, passed February 5, 2007,
relating to one or more contracts
with iTRACS for professional services necessary to provide and
install new and upgraded software
necessary to expand current modules, for the Department of Public
Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1041-07.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more Memorandums of Agreement with Continen-

74
tal Airlines and The Department of
Homeland Security’s Transportation
Security
Administration
to
implement an automated, in-line checked baggage screening system located at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1042-07.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
establish an Airline Incentive Program and to enter into contracts
with new entrant and/or scheduled
airlines under such program.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 2, line 5, strike “exercisable by the Director of Port Control” and insert “as approved by
Council after obtaining additional
legislative authority. Expenditures
for marketing shall not exceed $1
million over life of the program.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1043-07.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at the southwest corner of
Champion Avenue and West 100th
Street to Mary K. Pikus.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1044-07.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into an agreement with the
Ohio Department of Transportation
to install ornamental fencing on the
West 14th Street Bridge over I-490.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1046-07.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of one replacement gate
for movable bridges, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1047-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the Cuyahoga County
Public Health Collaborative Program; authorizing the Director to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide marketing,
education, and awareness services;
to enter into one or more requirement contracts necessary to implement the program; to enter into one
or more contracts with Executive
Information Systems LLC to acquire
license updates and any upgrades
for SAS; authorizing the purchase or
lease of television and radio advertising time and other media; and
authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies necessary to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1049-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Kaiser Permanente of Ohio for the
Motivating Movement through Marathoning Program; authorizing the
Director to enter into an agreement
with the Cleveland Municipal School
District; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals to implement the
grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, lines 3 and 4, strike
“a grant from Kaiser Permanente of
Ohio” and insert “grants from the
Cleveland Foundation and St. Luke’s
Foundation”.
2. In Section 1, line 2, strike “a
grant in the approximate amount of
$74,555” and insert “grants in the
approximate aggregate amount of
$93,055”; and in line 3, strike “Kaiser
Permanente of Ohio” and insert “the
Cleveland Foundation and St. Luke’s
Foundation”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1050-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for

1494

August 15, 2007
the Get It? Social Marketing and
Health Promotion Program; authorizing the Director to employ one or
more professional consultants to provide
marketing,
education,
and
awareness services; authorizing the
purchase by one or more requirement
contracts of materials, equipment,
supplies and services needed to
implement the program; authorizing
the purchase or lease of television
and radio advertising time and other
media; and authorizing the Director
to enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies, entities, or
individuals to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1051-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the MomsFirst
and Invest in Children Partnership
Program; and authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement
contracts of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services needed to
implement the grant; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies,
entities,
or
individuals
to
implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1052-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept grants from
the Cleveland Foundation and the
Woodruff Foundation for the Integrated Health Initiative Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1053-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the Cities Readiness Initiative Program; authorizing the purchase by
one or more requirement contracts
of materials, equipment, supplies,
and services needed to implement
the program; authorizing the director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies to
implement the program; and authorizing the Director to employ one or
more professional consultants to
implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, at the end, strike
the period and insert “and authoriz-

August 15, 2007
ing the purchase or lease of television and radio advertising time and
other media.”.
2. In Section 11 at the end of the
first paragraph, strike the period
and insert “, including but not limited to providing marketing, education and awareness services.”.
3. Insert new Section 12 to read as
follows:
“Section 12. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the purchase or lease, during the
grant term, of television and radio
advertising time and other media,
for
the
Department
of
Public
Health.”.
4. Renumber existing Sections 12
and 13 to new “Section 13” and “Section 14”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1054-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
State and Territorial Injury Prevention Director’s Association for the
Safe Routes 2 School Injury Prevention Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1057-07.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to accept cash
donations from public and private
entities for the purpose of constructing the Morgana Athletic Complex; and to amend Section 9 of Ordinance No. 2151-03, passed December
15, 2003, as amended, relating to
City-owned
park
and
recreation
improvements.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1059-07.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
one or more contracts with the
National Junior Tennis League of
Cleveland, Inc. to provide a summer
tennis program for 2007 and 2008.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1060-07.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts
of
electronic
parking
meters, for the Division of Parking
Facilities, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1061-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located on the east side of West 28th
Street and known as Permanent Parcel No. 003-38-049 to the Great Lakes
Brewing Company, or its designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1062-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to accept two Brownfields
Assessments grants from the United
States
Environmental
Protection
Agency to conduct environmental
assessments on brownfield sites
located in the City of Cleveland relating to their redevelopment; authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals needed
to implement the grants; authorizing
the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed
to implement the grants; and authorizing the Director to employ one or
more professional consultants needed
to implement the grants.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1063-07.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1884-98,
passed
December
14,
1998;
and
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an
amendment to Contract No. 55769
with E & L Properties, Ltd. to partially finance the construction and
renovation of real property at 9103
Buckeye Road.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

1495

75
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1064-07.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4
of Ordinance No. 1138-05, passed July
13, 2005; relating to the purchase of
the Midland Steel site located at
10615 Madison Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1081-07.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment
Zone Section 108 loan, an Economic
Development Initiative Grant Agreement, and a UDAG Agreement with
Contract Transport Services, Inc. to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition of real and personal property,
including construction and renovation of real property improvements to
the property located at 3223 Perkins
Avenue, and other associated costs
necessary to redevelop the property.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1140-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 559.541 thereof, relating
to prohibited hours in Public Square.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Parks, Property and Recreation,
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at new Section
559.541, line 2, after “No unauthorized person shall” strike “be or”.
2. In Section 1, at new Section
559.541, after line 20, but before the
map insert “Whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on
the second offense, and a misdemeanor of the third degree on the
third and any subsequent offense.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli,
Britt, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats,
Conwell, Cummins, Johnson, Keane,
Lewis, Polensek, Reed, Santiago,
Turner, Westbrook and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
Kelley.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

76

The City Record

August 15, 2007

SECOND READING ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1068-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance establishing an Entertainment Overlay District on property bounded by Merwin Street, Center
Street, Fall Street and Simms Street (Map Change Number 2234, Sheet Number 1).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City Planning; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, strike lines 8, 9, 10, and 11 in their entirety and insert:
“Thence westerly and northerly along said centerline of Simms Street to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of Sanders Place;
Thence northeasterly along said prolongation of said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Kramer
Court;
Thence westerly and northerly along said centerline of Kramer Court to its intersection with the centerline of
Merwin Street;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Merwin Street to its intersection with the centerline of Center
Street and the principal place of beginning;”.
2. In Section 1, line 12, strike “1068-07-A” and insert “1068-07-B”.
3. Strike the attached map and insert the following:

Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19. Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council before final passage.

1496

August 15, 2007
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 1173-07.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution encouraging the Jackson Administration to
urge area banks and lenders to offer
loan modifications to mortgage borrowers who are falling behind on
payments and heading toward default and foreclosure.
Approved by Director of Law;
Adoption recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Ord. No. 1048-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Conference of Mayors and DuPont for the Cities for
United Science Progress Program; to
enter into one or more contracts with
various agencies, entities or individuals; and authorizing the Director to
employ one or more professional consultants to perform assessments and
manage the program.
Without objection, Ordinance No.
1048-07 was relieved of further consideration of all committees and laid
on the table pursuant to the Rules
of Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Ordinance No. 1048-07 laid
on the table.
MOTION
By Council Member Kelley, seconded by Council Member Santiago,
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Members Sabra
Pierce Scott and Robert J. White be
and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:39 p.m. to meet at the call of the
Chair.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
August 8, 2007
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, August 8, 2007,
at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi
presiding.

The City Record
Present: Director Triozzi, Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Ciaccia,
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner
Purchases and Supplies.
Debra Linn Talley, Director Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 433-07.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of July,
2007 in the amount of $52,773.05
attached and made a part of this
resolution, is received, approved and
ordered filed.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Ciaccia,
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 434-07.
By Director Ciaccia.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1105-06, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on October 30,
2006, Creative Works, is selected
upon the nomination of the Director
of Public Utilities from a list of public relations firms determined, after
a full and complete canvass by the
Director, as the firm to be employed
by contract for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of several departments of the
City of Cleveland in order to provide
professional services necessary to
perform research, writing, creative
design, photography, artwork, layout, preparation of camera-ready artwork and offset lithographic reproduction of the 2006 and 2007 Annual Reports for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Department of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a written contract with Creative Works, based
upon its proposal dated February
12, 2007, which contract shall be
prepared by the Director of Law
and shall provide for furnishing of
professional services as contained
in the proposal and shall contain
the terms and conditions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
work shall commence upon execution of the contract and shall further provide that the aggregate fee
will not be in excess of $70,310.00.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractor to Creative Works is approved:

1497

77
SUBCONTRACTOR
Photography by Tony
$3,500.00 — 9.96% of contract amount
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Ciaccia,
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 435-07.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Genesis Lamp Corporation, for
electrical parts and equipment, including labor, materials and installation, if necessary, to maintain,
repair and modify electrical systems at airport properties, item 7,
for the Department of Port Control,
for a period of two years with two
one year options to renew beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on May 18, 2007,
under the authority of Ordinance
No. 191-07, passed on March 12, 2007,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $80,000.00,
is affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Port Control is requested to
enter into a requirement contract
for the labor and materials necessary, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 168457
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $30,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such labor
and materials, whether more or less
than the estimated quantity, as may
be ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Ciaccia,
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 436-07.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of Consolidated Electrical Distributors, Inc. d/b/a Leader Electric Supply Co., for electrical parts
and equipment, including labor,
materials and installation, if necessary, to maintain, repair and
modify electrical systems at airport
properties, items 1 through 5 and
item 8, for the Department of Port
Control, for a period of two years
with two one year options to renew
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on May
18, 2007, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 191-07, passed on
March 12, 2007, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $495,600.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and
best bid, and the Director of Port
Control is requested to enter into a

The City Record

78
requirement contract for the labor
and materials necessary, which
shall provide for the immediate
purchase as the initial amount of
the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 168456
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $80,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such labor
and materials, whether more or less
than the estimated quantity, as may
be ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subcontractor
by Consolidated Electrical Distributors, Inc. d/b/a Leader Supply Co. is
approved:
Subconsultant

Percentage
Amount

Road Runners, Inc.

0.40%- FBE
$2,000.00

Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Ciaccia,
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 437-07.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Suburban Maintenance &
Construction Inc., for the public improvement of the City of Cleveland
parking garage repairs and alterations, base bid 1, for the Department of Parks, Recreation, and
Properties, received on June 20,
2007, under the authority of Ordinances Nos. 837-05 and 838-05, both
passed June 6, 2005, and amended by
Ordinance No. 536-07, passed April
30, 2007, for a gross price for the improvement in the aggregate amount
of $478,000, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest responsible bid, and
the Director of Parks, Recreation,
and Properties is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Suburban Maintenance & Construction,
Inc. is approved:
Subcontractor
MBE/FBE
Dunlop Industries
FBE

Saunders & Sons Painting
MBE

Amount
Percentage

$20,000.00
4.18%

$60,000.00
12.55%

Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Ciaccia,
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

August 15, 2007

Resolution No. 438-07.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of Envirocom Construction Company,
Inc.,
for
the
public
improvement of the City of Cleveland
parking garage repairs and alterations, base bid 2 and alternates 1,
2, and 3, for the Department of
Parks, Recreation, and Properties,
received on June 20, 2007, under the
authority of Ordinances Nos. 840-05,
842-05, and 843-05, all passed June 6,
2005, and Ordinances Nos. 837-05, and
838-05, both passed June 6, 2005 and
amended by Ordinance No. 536-07,
passed April 30, 2007, for a gross
price for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $1,056,700, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest
responsible bid, and the Director of
Parks, Recreation, and Properties is
authorized to enter into contract for
the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractors by Envirocom
Construction Company, Inc. is approved:
Subcontractor
MBE/FBE

Amount
Percentage

Work Best Electric
FBE

North Electric, Inc.
MBE

Hogan Electric
MBE

$259,000.00
24.51%

$ 48,477.00
4.59%

$ 85,000.00
8.04%

The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirements for such commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Be it further resolved that the following subcontractor to SouthEast
Security Corporation is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

Advanced Federated
Protection

Resolution No. 440-07.
By Director Reilly.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
additional sub-contractor by Titan
Wrecking & Environmental, LLC
under City Contract No. 66966 for the
public improvement of Demolition
and Environmental Remediation of
Midland Steel Property located at
10615 Madison Avenue for the Department of Economic Development,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1280-06, passed October 2, 2006, and
Board of Control Resolution No. 29207, adopted on June 6, 2007, is approved.
Sub-contractor

Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Ciaccia,
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 439-07.
By Director Cox.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of SouthEast Security Corporation,
for item A to include installation
and equipment for security cameras
at various Recreation Centers, for
the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, for the period of 1 year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on August 2,
2007, under the authority of Ordinance No. 841-07, passed June 4, 2007,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $46,625.28
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase, as the initial amount
of the contract, of the following:
Requisition No. 164507
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of $46,625.28.

1498

$9,345.00
20.04%

Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Ciaccia,
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

PTC Industries
$480,000.00
45%

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Alpha Omega Chemical
Co.

Contract %
Amount

(MBE)1.24%
$48,350.00

Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Ciaccia,
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 441-07.
By Secretary Ambroz.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1466-06, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on November 13,
2006, MAGNET is selected from a
list of firms determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission
as the firm to be employed by contract to supplement the regularly
employed staff of several departments of the City of Cleveland to
perform the professional services
necessary to develop, administer,
and grade various Civil Service tests
for the Civil Service Commission.
Be it further resolved that the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission is authorized to enter into contract with MAGNET based on its
proposal dated July 10, 2007, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide for
the furnishing of professional ser-

August 15, 2007

The City Record

vices as described in the proposal
for an aggregate fee not to exceed
$300,000.00, and shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Yeas:
Director
Triozzi,
Acting
Director Hardy, Directors Ciaccia,
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Reilly, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

appeal under the authority of Section 76-6 of the Cleveland City Charter and Section 329.02(d) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances from
two comments in the review provided by the Division of Traffic Engineering, Cleveland Department of
Public Service, regarding the parking lot driveways at Buhrer Avenue
and at Rowley Avenue for the property at 1600 Buhrer Avenue, the
Buhrer Kindergarten through Eighth
Grade public school.

JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

Calendar No. 07-144: 2331 East 55th
Street (Ward 5)
James Majors, owner, appeals to
use for outdoor storage of materials and parking of trucks a 100' x
220' parcel located in a General
Business District on the east side
of East 55th Street at 2331 East
55th Street; the proposed use being
contrary to Section 343.11(b) and
not permitted in a General Retail
District but first permitted in a
Semi-Industry District, but only
when the parcel is surrounded by
a 7 foot high wall or fence that
provides at least a 75 percent or
greater opacity to conceal the storage; and a gravel lot is proposed,
where parking spaces and all vehicle maneuvering areas must be
properly graded for drainage within the lot and surfaced with concrete or asphalt, according to the
provisions of Section 349.07(a) of
the Codified Ordinances.

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2007
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 07-142: 4343-49 West
130th Street (Ward 19)
Broken Wheel Auto Parts and
Wrecking, owner, appeal to erect a
fence,
described
as
95
percent
opaque, 7 foot high, around an auto
wrecking/dismantling yard, situated
on an irregular shaped acreage parcel located in split zoning between
Semi and General Industry Districts
on the east side of West 130th Street
at 4343-4349 West 130th Street; and
a minimum 7 foot high, solid masonry wall or slightly solid, non-transparent fence is required as stated in
Section 345.049(a)(4) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 07-143: 1600 Buhrer
Avenue (Ward 14)
The Cleveland Metropolitan School
District and Gregory Goss, agent,

Calendar No. 07-146: 5100 Pearl Road
(Ward 16)
The Alex Solomon Limited Family Trust, owner, and David Lynch,
their attorney, appeal under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the
Cleveland City Charter and Section
329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances from a ruling made as a
result of a hearing held on July 18,
2007 by the Board of Sidewalk Appeals and the Cleveland Department
of Public Service, regarding a Citation issued for the property located
at 5100 Pearl Road, Permanent Parcel No. 012-33-004.
Calendar No. 07-147: 3858 East 147th
Street (Ward 3)
Nita Hill, owner, appeals to enclose first and second floor, 9' x 24'
porches of an existing two family
dwelling, situated on a 40' x 201.71'
parcel located in a One-Family District on the west side of East 147th
Street at 3858 East 147th Street; contrary to the Area Regulations, a 9
foot projection is proposed and an
enclosed porch may not project
more than 4 feet nor aggregate a
vertical area in any story more
than 20 percent of the are of the
facade in that story, according to
Section 357.13(b)4) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 07-149: 4365 State Road
(Ward 16)
Patricia Harris, owner, appeals to
add an approximate 600 square foot
outdoor patio and approximately 120
linear feet of 6 foot high wooden
fence on a 36' x 117' corner parcel,
located in a Local Retail Business
District on the southeast corner of
State Road and Montclair Avenue at
4365 State Road; contrary to Section
349.04(f), no additional parking is

1499

79
provided and one space per 100
square feet, or 6 additional parking
spaces, are required, and a portion
of the existing parking area is
being eliminated by the proposed
patio, contrary to Section 349.02; and
contrary to Sections 352.08 through
352.10 there is no landscape transition strip and a 6 foot wide landscaped transition strip is required
where the parking lot abuts the
street; with an approximate 60 foot
width of driveway where the maximum width of driveway may not
exceed 30 feet and a 15 foot minimum distance is required between
the driveway and adjoining property line, according to the provisions
of Section 334.18(b)(d) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 07-161: 3282 West 90th
Street (Ward 18)
Kathryn Fox, owner, appeals to
install a central air conditioning
mechanical condenser proposed to
be placed in the interior side yard
of a 35' x 93' parcel, located in a
Two-Family District on the west
side of West 90th Street at 3282
West 90th Street contrary to Section
357.13 of the Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, AUGUST 13, 2007
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, August
13, 2007, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 07-131: 1956-62 West
58th Street – Unit 1, a.k.a. 5810
Pear Avenue
Evergreen Housing Corporation
appealed to erect a single family
dwelling and detached garage in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 07-132: 1956-62 West
58th Street – Unit 2, a.k.a. 5806
Pear Avenue
Evergreen Housing Corporation
appealed to erect a single family
dwelling and detached garage in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 07-133: 1956-62 West
58th Street – Unit 3, a.k.a. 5802
Pear Avenue
Evergreen Housing Corporation
appealed to erect a single family
dwelling and detached garage in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 07-136: 11001 Edgewater Drive
George Katsikas appealed to erect
a 6 foot tall fence along a portion
of the rear and side street yards of
a corner parcel in an AA Limited
Family District.
Calendar No. 07-137: 3402 Horace
Court
Hector Cruz appealed to erect a
wooden deck in the rear yard and
to place an air conditioning unit in

The City Record

80
the interior side yard of a single
family dwelling in a Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 07-85: 2906 Fulton Road
Caribe Development Company appealed to erect a 5,200 square foot
one-story retail building on a corner
parcel in a Local Retail Business
District; subject to condition.
The following appeals were Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 07-71: 4500 West 130th
Street – Violation Notice
Calendar No. 07-72: 4542 West 130th
Street – Violation Notice
Gary Weiss, a.k.a. B.M.W. Realty
Company, Inc. appealed from Notices
of Violations issued by the Building
and Housing Department.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

None.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 07-126: 2041 East 125th
Street – Unit 1 postponed to
August 27, 2007.
Calendar No. 07-127: 2041 East 125th
Street – Unit 2 postponed to
August 27, 2007.
Calendar No. 07-128: 2041 East 125th
Street – Unit 3 postponed to
August 27, 2007.
In Executive Session on August
13, 2007, the following appeals heard
by the Board on August 6, 2007 were
ratified.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 07-130: 3290 West 17th
Street
Maryann and Randolph Balog appealed to install 80 feet of 5 foot
high privacy fence in the front yard
and 40 feet of 5 foot high and 70
feet of 6 foot high privacy fence in
the actual side street yard, and 124
feet of privacy fence in the interior
side yard of a flag shaped corner
parcel in a Two-Family District;
subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 07-109: 7405 Herman
Avenue
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization appealed to
erect a one-story frame accessory
garage on a corner parcel in a TwoFamily District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 07-123: 3247 West 56th
Street
Vitali Martinouk and Svetlana
Belaia appealed to enclose an existing 6' x 22' open front porch of a
two family dwelling in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 07-124: 15316 Huntmere
Avenue
Raquel Wilbon appealed to establish use as a Type A day care in an

August 15, 2007

existing one family dwelling located in a A1 One-Family District.
Calendar No. 07-30: Violation Notices
– 3968 / 3990 / 3979 Pearl Road
Brookside Auto Parts, Inc. appealed from Notices of Violation
issued by the Building and Housing
Department.
The following appeal was Reinstated:
Calendar No. 07-120: 2033-2107 Clover
Avenue
JOS Development Inc. appealed to
erect five new townhouses in two
separate buildings of two and three
units on two consolidated parcels in
a Two-Family District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
August 8, 2007
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
* * *
Docket A-82-07
RE: Appeal of MCM Warehouse
Inc. c/o Theodore F. Lichko, Owner
of the Property located on the
premises known as 1032 Hartley
Road from a CEASE USE OF OPERATIONS VACATE PREMISES OF
UNPROTECTED
PORTIONS
OF
COMPLEX of the Chief of the Division of Fire, dated June 4, 2007,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require that the
Appellant either complete sprinklering the areas that he wishes to occupy, or abandon the areas and leave
them broom cleaned with no combustible materials and uninhabited;
and to grant the Appellant one (1)
week in which to start the work and
forty-five (45) days in which to complete the work; and to require that
a FIRE WATCH, by the employees,
be reinstated and that all areas
should become accessible. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Gallagher,
Saab,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.

ing, dated May 11, 2007, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued based upon the evidence presented to the Board; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-93-07.
RE: Appeal of Robert L. Stark,
Owner of the Five Story Concrete
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 1350 West 3rd
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — HVAC of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, dated July 3, 2007, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to permit the secondary drain
pan not to be installed on the first
floor, but to cut a permanent access
door in so that the primary drain
can be serviced; and that when that
unit fails, the secondary drain pan
will be installed. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-94-07.
RE: Appeal of J-Set Ltd. C/O Jesse
E. Adkins, Owner of the Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 5024 Dolloff Road from a
LIMITATION ON THE PERMIT of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated July 5,
2007, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to complete restoration of the exterior of the property acceptable to
the City; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action with satisfactory progress
being required before and after the
ninety (90) days. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

* * *

* * *

Docket A-89-07.
RE: Appeal of Centex Home Equity Company, LLC, Mortgagee of the
One Dwelling Unit Single Family
Residential Property located on the
premises known as 3709 West 137th
Street from a 14 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Hous-

Docket A-96-07.
RE: Appeal of Chemtura Corporation, Owner of the Two Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 3401 West 140th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MS of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
dated June 5, 2007, requiring com-

1500

The City Record

August 15, 2007
pliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the Appellant nine (9) months in which to complete abatement of all violations; the
property is to be maintained to the
satisfaction of the City; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing
for supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

proposed with the columns separation distance 12 and 16 feet as noted,
also noting that during the hours of
occupancy the gates or wire walls
will not be closed, and granting the
variance to a smoke control system
in view of the particular type of construction and egress conditions proposed, the Appellant is permitted to
submit occupancy limitations based
on his code interpretations for consideration when this resolution is
passed. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

* * *

* * *

Docket A-99-07.
RE: Appeal of Residential Funding Co. c/o Tim Prida, Owner of the
Two Story Frame Residential Property located on the premises known
as 11711 Phillips Avenue from a 7
DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MS of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
dated May 22, 2007, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-99-07 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
August 22, 2007.

Docket A-109-07.
RE: Appeal of CB Richard Ellis
(The Penton Building), Owner of
the Property located on the premises known as 1300 East 9th Street
(8th Floor) from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated July 17, 2007, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the requirement for the
building to be sprinkled throughout,
noting that the Appellant has continued to agree to sprinkle the
floors in an expedient manner when
available and that this floor is
sprinkled. Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

* * *
Docket A-103-07.
RE: Appeal of DMTJ Inc. DBA
Euclid Tavern, Owner of the Property located on the premises known
as 11625-29 Euclid Avenue from an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER
of
the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated July 18,
2007, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance required to allow the windows
to remain without wire glass, noting
that the sills are seven (7) feet
above the level of exit discharge; to
permit the fan to exhaust, noting
that the fan is ten (10) feet above
grade and that there is a parking
lot adjacent to the six (6) foot property line; and to require that a limited
area
sprinkler
system
be
installed in the basement and that
a one-hour enclosure be provided
around the stairwell exiting from
the basement. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-106-07.
RE: Appeal of Pricor, Owner of
the Property located on the premises
known as 2020 Center Street from an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER
of
the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated July 18,
2007, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit the mall
to be constructed and occupied as

81
of the Resolution as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Docket, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-86-07—Coleman Coleman.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
July 25, 2007
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

* * *
For All Departments
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-74-07—Erieview Homes II Limited Partnership.
A-83-07—Telucksingh Mangalsingh.
A-84-07 — Kamp LLC — Michael
Piaser.
A-100-07—Grey Stone Properties.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolution as presented by the
Secretary for the following Docket,
subject to the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-85-07—Leonard Stys.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption

1501

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or

The City Record

82
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 2007
File No. 226-07 — Labor and Materials Necessary for Painting and
Paint
Removal
on
Roadways,
Runways and Other Paved Surfaces, for the Various Divisions of
Port Control, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 986-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, AUGUST 17, 2007 AT 11:00
A.M., CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT’S CENTRAL
RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44125-3193.
August 8, 2007 and August 15, 2007
FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2007
File No. 225-07 — Pumps, Pipe Saws,
Chain
Saws,
Tampers,
Chain
Sharpeners and Labor to Repair
Pumps, Pipe Saws, Chain Saws
and Air Tools, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1255-06, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, October
30, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, AUGUST 17, 2007 AT
11:00 A.M., DIVISION OF WATER,
DISTRIBUTION
AND
MAINTENANCE, PIPE REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM, 4600 HARVARD
AVENUE, NEWBURGH HEIGHTS,
OHIO 44105.
August 8, 2007 and August 15, 2007
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2007
File No. 227-07 — Janitorial Maintenance, for the Various Divisions
of Port Control, Department of
Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 192-07, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, March 12, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, AUGUST 10, 2007 AT 10:00
A.M., CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT’S CENTRAL
RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
August 15, 2007 and August 22, 2007

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1173-07.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution encouraging the Jackson Administration to
urge area banks and lenders to offer
loan modifications to mortgage borrowers who are falling behind on
payments and heading toward default and foreclosure.

Whereas, last year, 11,076 new foreclosure cases were filed in Cuyahoga
County Common Please Court; and
Whereas, homeowners and citizens
all over the City of Cleveland are
negatively affected by the high number of mortgage foreclosures; and
Whereas, foreclosures often result
in vacant properties that become a
breeding ground for crime, depress
property values, and reduce city tax
revenue; and
Whereas, vacant and abandoned
properties require a disproportionate
amount of government maintenance,
from securing properties against
criminal activity to removal of
garbage and rodents to demolition,
all at a cost to taxpayers; and
Whereas, vacant properties degrade and devalue the quality of
life for remaining residents, isolating and weakening the neighborhood, and increasing the likelihood
that property values will continue to
decline and further abandonment
will set in; and
Whereas, foreclosures are rising
fast partly because lenders in recent
years rushed to make no-moneydown loans to people with weak
credit records and didn’t always verify their income; and
Whereas, the decline in housing
prices in Cleveland and Cuyahoga
County makes it hard for borrowers
who fall behind to sell their homes
for enough money to pay off the
loan; and
Whereas, according to the Wall
Street Journal, when borrowers fall
behind on payments, lenders typically consider offering a loan modification,
involving
lowering
the
interest rate or stretching out the
term; and
Whereas, lenders have used loan
modifications for years, but the
practice is expected to proliferate as
defaults rise, possibly peaking at
several times the usual 2% of outstanding loans; and
Whereas, area lenders and banks
could prevent mortgages borrowers
from foreclosure, and the resulting
vacant housing crisis in Cleveland
by offering loan modifications; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby encourages the Jackson Administration to urge area banks and
lenders to offer loan modifications to
mortgage borrowers who are falling
behind on payments and heading
toward default and foreclosure.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Mayor
Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

1502

August 15, 2007
Res. No. 1291-07.
By Council Members Zone, Brady,
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Keane, Kelley, Pierce Scott, Polensek and Westbrook.
An emergency resolution fixing
the determination by Council to:
approve a standard for interconnection of customer-owned distributed
generation to the Division of Cleveland Public Power’s distribution system; to approve a standard for net
metering service by the Division of
Cleveland Public Power for such
interconnected customers as may
request it; to defer any determination to adopt time-based electric
rates until the Division of Cleveland
Public Power has completed further
study of their feasibility; and to
adopt such legislation as may be
necessary to allow the Division of
Cleveland Public Power to determine whether time-based rates are
practically feasible, and if feasible,
can be implemented successfully.
Whereas, the Energy Policy Act
of 2005 amends Section 111(d) of the
Public Utility Regulatory Policies
Act of 1978 (“PURPA”) by requiring
the governing bodies of electric
facilities with annual retail sales of
electric energy greater than 500 million kilowatt hours to consider and
determine whether to adopt new
standards for these facilities; and
Whereas, the Division of Cleveland Public Power is subject to the
terms of these amendments; and
Whereas, the standards set forth
in these amendments include the following: Standard (11): Net Metering;
Standard (14): Time-Based Metering
and Communications; and Standard
(15): Interconnection; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland is the governing body
of the Division of Cleveland Public
Power; and
Whereas, the Public Utilities Committee of the Council of the City of
Cleveland conducted public hearings
on November 30, 2006 and May 23,
2007, and a public workshop on
April 2, 2007, addressing the PURPA
standards for Interconnection, Net
Metering, and Time-Based Metering
and Communications; and
Whereas, the Public Utilities Committee of the Council of the City of
Cleveland solicited and received testimony and comment on these standards; and
Whereas, the Department of Public
Utilities submitted a Report and Recommendations on May 11, 2007 to the
Public Utilities Committee of the
Council of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, on the basis of the testimony, comment, and evidence summarized in the Report and Recommendations and contained in Council File No. 1291-07-A, this Council
makes its determinations on the
PURPA standards for Interconnection, Net Metering, and Time-Based
Metering and Communications, as
set forth in Sections 1 through 6 of
this Resolution; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engi-

August 15, 2007
neers (IEEE) Standard 1547, as referenced by PURPA Interconnection
Standard (15), should be adopted for
interconnection of customer-owned
distributed generation to the Division of Cleveland Public Power’s
distribution system.
Section 2. That the PURPA Net
Metering Standard 11 should be
adopted.
Section 3. That this Council should
defer any decision to legislate timebased electric rates until the Division of Cleveland Public Power has
completed further study of their feasibility.
Section 4. That this determination
to defer any decision to legislate
time-based electric rates is based
upon the Council’s findings that
more research is needed to establish
whether implementation of timebased rates can be achieved in a
cost-effective manner, and whether
sufficient demand exists among
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power’s customer classes.
Section 5. That legislation implementing the determinations of this
Council expressed in this Resolution
shall be enacted as necessary to
implement the standards approved
by this Resolution.
Section 6. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Effective August 10, 2007.

Res. No. 1292-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Britt, Conwell, Kelley, Lewis, Santiago,
Turner,
Westbrook,
White,
Zone and Cummins.
An emergency resolution supporting House of Representatives Bill
1506, introduced by Representatives
Markey and Platts, to raise fuel
efficiency standards to 35 miles per
gallon by 2018, and opposing House
of Representatives Bill 2927, introduced by Representatives Hill and
Terry, to reduce the increase in fuel
efficiency standards to only 32 miles
per gallon by 2022.
Whereas, support for increasing
fuel efficiency standards is strong
due to high gas prices, dependence
on foreign oil, and concern over
global warming.
Whereas, the Markey-Platts bill
builds on the bipartisan vote in the
Senate to raise fuel efficiency standards to 35 miles per gallon by 2020,
and expedites this standard by 2018.
Whereas, this 4% annual increase
in fuel efficiency standards for all
cars and light trucks is supported
by President George W. Bush, national security experts, and the
National Academy of Sciences, whose
findings show this standard both
technologically
and
economically
feasible.
Whereas, by the year 2020, the
Markey-Platts bill would reduce oil
use by 1.6 million barrels per day
and save drivers $37 billion per year
at the pump.

The City Record
Whereas,
the
counter-proposal
Hill-Terry bill would prevent this
significant progress by reducing the
increase in fuel efficiency standards
to only 32 miles per gallon by 2022.
Whereas, the Hill-Terry bill would
only increase fuel efficiency annually by 1.8%, and bars the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration from setting standards beyond
a 35 mile-per-gallon level.
Whereas, the Hill-Terry bill also
allows automakers to delay fuel
economy compliance for up to five
years based on promises of future
improvement, and threatens greenhouse gas limits for vehicles enacted by California and adopted by
other states.
Whereas, proposed House Bill 1506,
if passed, will benefit the City of
Cleveland by saving drivers the most
money at the gas pump, reducing
dependence on foreign oil, and reducing global warming, while House
Bill 2927, if passed, provides little
positive impact and contains negative loopholes and provisions; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports House of Representatives Bill
1506, introduced by Representatives
Markey and Platts, to raise fuel efficiency standards to 35 miles per gallon by 2018, and opposes House of
Representatives
Bill
2927,
introduced by Representatives Hill and
Terry, to reduce the increase in fuel
efficiency standards to only 32 miles
per gallon by 2022.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
Representative Markey, Representative Platts, House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi, and Mayor Frank Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1293-07.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor
Permit at 10330 Lorain Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 598-07, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit to 10330
Lorain Avenue by Resolution No.
598-07 adopted by the Council on
April 16, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

1503

83
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit to Sophia Tirado,
DBA Lucky’s, 10330 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 8945413, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 598-07, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1294-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 3795 East 71st
Street, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 9804010 owned by
X Driver, Inc., DBA Polish Village,
3795 East 71st Street, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,

84
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1295-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 3614 East 65th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8912747 owned by Jerrich, Inc., DBA
Karbs Tavern, 3614 East 65th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1296-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3367 East 65th
Street, 1st floor front.
Whereas, the uniform date for renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation
may
object
to
the
renewal of a permit based upon
legal grounds as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7500355 owned by Rome
Jack, Inc., DBA, Johnnies Beverage,
3367 East 65th Street, 1st floor front,
Cleveland, Ohio 44127, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of
Council be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies
of this resolution, together with
two copies of a letter of objection
and two copies of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in
Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

1504

August 15, 2007
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1297-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 4136 East 71st
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 23759120030
owned by Albet Dworznik, DBA
Victory Tavern, 4136 East 71st
Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

August 15, 2007
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1298-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3850 East 65th
Street, 1st floor only.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2760315 owned by Five
Star Robin, Inc., DBA Mike’s Food
Mart, 3850 East 65th Street, 1st floor
only, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record
Res. No. 1299-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 7020 Harvard Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the
renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2434505 owned by
Eden Oil, DBA Harvard Gas USA,
7020 Harvard Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1300-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 4257 East 71st
Street.

1505

85
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4895593 owned by Krunal, Inc., DBA 1 2 3 Quik Stop, 4257
East 71st Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1301-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 5212 Fleet
Avenue, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renew-

86
al of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8564054 owned
by Steven James Enterprises, 5212
Fleet Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1302-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 5407 Fleet Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a

The City Record
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8947247 owned by Titash,
Inc., DBA Ghazi Market, 5407 Fleet
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1303-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 7018 Union Avenue, 1st floor
front and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

1506

August 15, 2007
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
5729924 owned by Ransom McDowell, Jr., 7018 Union Avenue, first
floor front and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1304-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 5421 Fleet Avenue
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor per-

August 15, 2007
mits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2759404 owned by 5421 Fleet Avenue,
LLC, DBA Fleet’s Finest, 5421 Fleet
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1305-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit at 1299 West 9th
Street, 1st floor and basement, and
repealing
Resolution
No.
1093-07
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Midwest Entertainment Venture,
LLC, DBA Anatomy, 1299 West 9th
Street,
1st
floor
and
basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
No. 5930856, by Resolution No. 109307 adopted by the Council on July
11, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Midwest Entertainment Venture,
LLC, DBA Anatomy, 1299 West 9th
Street, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent No.
5930856 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 109307 containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and

The City Record
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1306-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 618
Prospect Avenue, 2nd floor only.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 9271908
owned by View Cleveland, LLC, 618
Prospect Avenue, 2nd floor only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

1507

87
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1307-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership and renewal of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at
1204 Old River Road, and repealing
Resolution Nos. 758-06 and 1408-06,
objecting to said transfer and renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Kaos in the Flats, DBA Kaos,
1204 Old River Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 4462671
and 4262671-0003 by Resolution No.
758-06 adopted by the Council on
April 24, 2006, and to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permanent Number 5337947,
by Resolution No. 1408-06 adopted by
the Council on August 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objections to the above
transfer and renewal and consents
to said transfer and renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
Kaos in the Flats, DBA Kaos, 1204
Old River Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 4462671
and 4262671-0003 by Resolution No.
758-06 adopted by the Council on
April 24, 2006, and to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permanent Number 5337947,
by Resolution No. 1408-06 adopted by
the Council on August 9, 2006, containing such objections, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer and renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1308-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 3040-48 St. Clair
Avenue.

88
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8980519 owned by
Tom’s
Seafood
Restaurant,
LLC,
DBA
Tom’s
Seafood
Restaurant,
3040-48 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1309-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 6702 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Marijan, Inc., 6702 St. Clair Avenue,

The City Record
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 5534086 to Topcat, LLC,
DBA Topcats Pub & Grill, 6702 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 8988551; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Marijan, Inc., 6702 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 5534086 to Topcat, LLC, DBA
Topcats Pub & Grill, 6702 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 8988551; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

1508

August 15, 2007
Res. No. 1310-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 6524 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0251410 owned by ARA
Enterprise, Inc., DBA TK’s Tavern,
6524 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44103, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1311-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit at 7109 Central Avenue, 1st floor
only.

August 15, 2007
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
5432683 owned by Saeed H. Mahmoud, DBA Central Foods, 7109 Central Avenue, 1st floor only, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1312-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 3403 Croton
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal

The City Record
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 9146810 owned by
Ulrich Brothers, Inc., DBA Truckers
Tavern, 3403 Croton Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1313-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6
Liquor Permit at 5803 Outwaite Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

1509

89
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2861706 owned by
Sylvia Foxworth, DBA Johnnie’s
South of the Border, 5803 Outwaite
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1314-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2747 Cedar Avenue,
1st floor and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or

90
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 71337770005 owned by
Quasem, Inc., 2747 Cedar Avenue, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1315-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 3291 East 49th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safe-

The City Record
ty and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 3504707 owned by Issam
Hajj, DBA F & H Market, 3291 East
49th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44127,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1316-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3337 Central Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1510

August 15, 2007
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4034257 owned by Pamela
Hubbard, DBA McClain’s Market,
3337
Central
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44115, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1317-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3609 Community
College Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit No. 40739630001 owned
by Curtis Hunt, DBA Right On

August 15, 2007
Time Food & Beverage, 3609 Community College Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44115, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1318-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 4621 Central Avenue, 1st floor only.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit,
Permit
No.
02776290015
owned
by
Paul
Armond,
DBA
Paul’s Serve Rite Food Market,
4621 Central Avenue, 1st floor only,

The City Record
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1319-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4643 Broadway
Avenue, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 76857450005 owned by
Salina, Inc., DBA Broadway Deli, 4643
Broadway Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44127, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a

1511

91
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1320-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4818 Pershing Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 4253489 owned by Jatz,
Inc., DBA Clark Store, #1272, 4818
Pershing Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44127, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to

92
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1321-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1,
C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to 7515
Kinsman Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1, C2
and D6 Liquor Permit from 7515
Kinsman, Inc., DBA Kinsman Shoprite, 7515 Kinsman Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44104, Permanent Number 7638473
to Rite Beverage, Inc., DBA Kinsman Shoprite, 7515 Kinsman Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 74016270005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.

The City Record
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1, C2 and D6
Liquor Permit from 7515 Kinsman,
Inc., DBA Kinsman Shoprite, 7515
Kinsman
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 7638473 to
Rite Beverage, Inc., DBA Kinsman
Shoprite, 7515 Kinsman Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number
74016270005; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1322-07.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 5346 Dolloff Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 03397640010 owned by
Awad Food Mart, Inc., DBA Dairy

1512

August 15, 2007
Mart, #4453, 5346 Dolloff Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44127, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1323-07.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 1503 Spring Road, 1st
floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the
renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 4814048 owned by Koubba,
Inc., 1503 Spring Road, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of

August 15, 2007
Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1324-07.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 2011 Broadview Road, 1st floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4174557 owned by
JBK Sales, Inc., DBA Wedge Inn,
2011 Broadview Road, 1st floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1325-07.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 5200 Memphis Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7315819 owned by Revenue, Inc., 5200 Memphis Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44144, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of

1513

93
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1326-07.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit at 4262 Fulton Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 0727530
owned by BKJJ, LLC, DBA Alcove
Lounge, 4262 Fulton Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting

94
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1327-07.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 4256 Pearl Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2385085 owned by E Enterprises,
Inc., 4256 Pearl Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section

The City Record
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1328-07.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 14301
Kinsman Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Moran Foods,
Inc., DBA Save A Lot 623, 14301
Kinsman Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
Permanent Number 61433910035; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Moran Foods, Inc.,
DBA Save A Lot 623, 14301 Kinsman
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number 61433910035; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.

1514

August 15, 2007
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1329-07.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 3218 East
135th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit from 3218 Sophie, Inc., DBA
Eastside Groceries, 3218 East 135th
Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Permanent Number 8871284 to
M & H Food Mart, Inc., DBA Eastside Grocery, 3218 East 135th Street,
1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number 5379065; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,

August 15, 2007
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does
hereby record its objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from 3218 Sophie,
Inc., DBA Eastside Groceries, 3218
East 135th Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number 8871284 to M & H Food Mart,
Inc., DBA Eastside Grocery, 3218
East 135th Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number 5379065; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1330-07.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit at 3837 Ridge Road and basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0083955 owned by Aizic, Inc., 3837

The City Record
Ridge Road and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1331-07.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit at 8802 Superior Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 1397-06, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 8802
Superior Avenue by Resolution No.
1397-06 adopted by the Council on
August 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 8802 Superior Hawk, Inc., DBA Superior Food
Market, 8802 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent Number
2455399-0005 be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1397-06, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

1515

95
Res. No. 1332-07.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit at 788 East
200th Street and repealing Resolution No. 1316-06, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 788
East 200th Street by Resolution No.
1316-06 adopted by the Council on
August 9, 2006; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal
based upon and pursuant to a cooperation agreement between Councilmember Michael D. Polensek and
Applicant, Kawaljit Kaur, President
of Ash Kirat Corporation, Inc.; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Harleen,
Inc., DBA Convenient Food Mart,
#3-030, 788 East 200th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number
3606223 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 131606, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1333-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1 and D2
Liquor Permit at 3203 West 25th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,

96
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1 and D2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8871311 owned by 3203
West 25th, Inc., DBA Jay’s Market,
3203 West 25th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1334-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3353 West 44th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0340206 owned by Khaldieh Awadallah, DBA Storer Delicatessen, 3353 West 44th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1335-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit at 3355 West
46th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 9256090
owned by Verlie’s Café, Inc., 3355
West 46th Street, 1st floor and base-

1516

August 15, 2007
ment only, Cleveland, Ohio 44102
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1336-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 4105 Clark Avenue,
1st and 2nd floors and basement
front.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8367381 owned by Somer
Day, Inc., Thomas G. Lobe, 4105
Clark Avenue, 1st and 2nd floors
and basement front, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with

August 15, 2007
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1337-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2 and D6
Liquor Permit at 4701 Storer Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1709318 owned by
Convenient Food Mart, Inc., #348,
4701 Storer Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies

The City Record
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1338-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at 5004 Storer
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 7709514 owned by
Santiago
Sanchez
Entertainment
Group LLC, 5114 Storer Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the

1517

97
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1339-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 4322 Clark
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Abaza-MJR,
Inc., 4322 Clark Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
Permanent
Number
0013040 to Joe & Son II, Inc., DBA
QS Gas & Go, 4322 Clark Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 4294025; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

98
Section 1. That Council does
hereby record its objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Abaza-MJR,
Inc., 4322 Clark Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
Permanent
Number
0013040 to Joe & Son II, Inc., DBA
QS Gas & Go, 4322 Clark Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 4294025; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1340-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit at 5110 Clark Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
91610350020 owned by United Petroleum Marketing, LLC, DBA UPM
#207, 5110 Clark Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44102, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accor-

The City Record
dance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1341-07.
By Council Member Turner.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit at 4480 East 143rd Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
1130731 owned by Robert Henry Burton, DBA Missy’s, 4480 East 143rd
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

1518

August 15, 2007
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1342-07.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 5901
Detroit Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Moran Foods,
Inc., DBA Save A Lot #622, 5901 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permanent Number 61433910030; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

August 15, 2007
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Moran Foods, Inc.,
DBA Save A Lot #622, 5901 Detroit
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 61433910030; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1343-07.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 15518 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit
to continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has
operated his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws,
regulations or local ordinances of
the state, and that this objection
is based on other legal grounds as
set forth in Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6665197 owned by Palsun,
Inc., DBA Convenient Express, 15518
St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that
the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, and a statement
by the Director of Law that, in the
Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon substantial legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1366-07.
By Council Members Turner, White,
Johnson, Cleveland, Britt, Pierce
Scott, Coats, Cimperman, Santiago,
Kelley, Westbrook, Sweeney, Keane,
Conwell, Brancatelli and Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting the Cuyahoga County Commissioners’ majority vote to raise the
county sales tax by a quarter of a
cent to help pay for a Medical Mart
and convention center in downtown
Cleveland.
Whereas, Cuyahoga County commissioners voted 2 to 1 to raise the
county sales tax a quarter of a cent
as part of plans to attract a Medical
Mart linked to a new convention
center; and
Whereas, the majority Commissioners decided to raise the tax
without a public vote in part because they wanted to move the project forward quickly and convince
the Merchandise Mart’s board of
directors the region is serious about
doing the project; and
Whereas, Cleveland has suffered
serious losses in manufacturing employment but significant gains in
the health care industry with an
international reputation for quality
medical care and cutting edge innovations and research; and
Whereas, the Medical Mart would
have an undeniably positive effect
upon the economy and people of
Cleveland in numerous ways; and
Whereas, the Medical Mart would
bring new hope and stability for
Cleveland citizens that are employed
in the hospitality and construction
industries; and
Whereas, according to the Convention and Visitors Bureau of
Greater Cleveland, nearly two-thirds
of those employed in the hospitality
industry live in the City of Cleveland, and slightly more than half
are minorities; and
Whereas, Cleveland’s hospitality
sector, which has demonstrated success in moving employees up the
ranks faster than other industries,
has suffered as a result of declining
convention business in Cleveland,
but the proposed Medical Mart and
convention and Trade Show Facility

1519

99
will grow our hospitality sector, create new jobs, and protect existing
jobs; and
Whereas, many Cleveland residents are benefiting from downtown
investments, providing a range of
employment opportunities, including
entry-level jobs need by those leaving welfare roles; and
Whereas, the Medical Mart will
reinvigorate downtown Cleveland
by attracting thousands of new visitors annually for medical trade
shows and other industry conventions that will result in increased
spending at downtown businesses
such as restaurants and hotels; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
will be the primary beneficiary of
increased income tax revenues as a
result of job creation from the new
facility, and the attraction of new
business in hospitality and medicalrelated industries; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
will benefit from higher property
taxes from downtown businesses,
directly benefiting the Cleveland
Municipal School District; and
Whereas, the Medical Mart would
help prepare Cleveland citizens for
jobs in the growing health care
industry and train our young people
for the jobs of the future; and
Whereas, our City, Cuyahoga County, the Cleveland Municipal School
District, higher educational institutions including Cuyahoga Community
College and Cleveland State University, along with the private sector
partners have already recognized the
need for increased workforce development in degreed and non-degreed
health care and technology jobs; and
Whereas, this Council will work
with the developer, Merchandise
Mart Properties, Inc. to assure that
we maximize the Medical Mart to
integrate with and further continue
progress of workforce development
aimed at training young people and
displaced workers to prepare for
jobs in our growing medical and
health care industry; and
Whereas, the increase in business
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport from the thousands of new
visitors who would come to Cleveland annually from across the country because of the one-or-a-kind medical mart, would help preserve the
airport as an airline hub; and
Whereas, the Medical Mart is an
opportunity that makes economic
sense and allows the City to take
control of our future by leveraging
our strengths in the medical industry, hospitality sector, technology,
bioscience and manufacturing sectors; and
Whereas, people from all over the
world take advantage of our health
care assets, and with the proposed
Medical Mart and Trade Show and
Convention Facility, we have the
opportunity to capitalize on our
health care strengths and spark a
real turn-around for the City’s economy and image; and
Whereas, this Council supports
jobs and investing in the future of
citizens, our workforce and our
economy; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

100
Section 1. Supporting the Cuyahoga County Commissioners’ majority vote to raise the county sales tax
by a quarter of a cent to help pay
for a Medical Mart and convention
center in downtown Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
Cuyahoga County Commissioners,
Jimmy Dimora, Tim Hagan, and
Peter Lawson Jones, and Mayor
Frank Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1954-06
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide various information technology services, on an
as-needed basis.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to provide various
information technology services, on
an as-needed basis, including but
not limited to, design, network and
security threat remediation, disaster
recovery/business
continuity
best practices and standards, telephony integration and expansion,
preparation of reports, and other
specialized technical assistance, including maintenance, for a period
of two years.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into any third-party software
license agreements necessary to
effect the purposes of this ordinance.

The City Record
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the contract or contracts authorized shall not exceed $425,000 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 52 SF
001, Request No. 171485.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 637-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of grounds
maintenance equipment and transportation trailers, including labor
and materials for maintaining and
repairing existing equipment, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one or two year
period of the necessary items of
grounds maintenance equipment and
transportation
trailers,
including
labor and materials for maintaining
and repairing existing equipment, in
the estimated sum of $64,000 per
year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a
period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Utilities by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against

1520

August 15, 2007
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 177281)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 694-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for strategic
acquisition, redevelopment, and rehabilitation of land and vacant,
abandoned, boarded structures within the City for redevelopment opportunities; and authorizing the Director
of Community Development to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals
to implement the program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 33 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That CDBG Year 33
grant funds in the amount of
$400,000 are appropriated for the
strategic acquisition, redevelopment,
and
rehabilitation
of
land
and
vacant,
abandoned,
and
boarded
structures within the City for redevelopment opportunities.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals, to implement the
redevelopment or rehabilitation opportunities through the acquisition,
redevelopment, and rehabilitation of
land and vacant, abandoned, and
boarded structures within the City.
Section 3. That the contract or
contracts shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 4. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts shall not exceed
$400,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 033, Request No.
178607.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

August 15, 2007
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 795-07
Council Member Britt
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on East 77th,
East 79th, Quincy Avenue to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-032 as
more fully described below, to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-34-032
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 5 and 35 in John
Lussenden’s Subdivision of part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 336 as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Subdivision in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
57
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Being on the Westerly line of
East 79th Street (formerly East
Madison) 66 feet North of the Southeast corner of said Sublot No. 5, measuring along the Westerly line of
East 79th Street; thence Northerly
along the Westerly line of East 79th
Street 10 feet 6 inches to the Northeast corner of said Sublot No. 5;
thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said Sublots Nos. 5 and 35
about 218 feet 11 inches to the Northeast corner of premises conveyed to
Joseph B. Lewis and Emma Lewis
by Deed recorded in Volume 796,
Page
352,
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Southerly parallel
with the Westerly line of East 79th
Street, 76 feet 6 inches to the

The City Record
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 35;
thence Easterly along the Southerly
line of said Sublots Nos. 5 and 35,
about 87 feet to a point; 132 feet
Westerly of the Westerly line of
East 79th Street measured along the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 5;
thence Northerly parallel with the
Westerly line of East 79th Street, 66
feet; thence Easterly parallel with
the Southerly line of said Sublot No.
5, 132 feet to the place of beginning
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-033 as
more fully described below to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-34-033
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot No. 5 in John Lussenden’s
Allotment of part of Original 100
Acre Lot No. 336 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
57
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly side of
East 79th Street (formerly Madison
Avenue) 32 feet North of the Southeast corner of said Sublot No. 5 measuring along the Westerly line of
East 79th Street; thence Westerly
parallel with the Southerly line of
said Sublot No. 5, 132 feet; thence
Northerly parallel with the Westerly line of East 79th Street, 34 feet;
thence Easterly parallel with the
first described line 132 feet to the
Westerly line of East 79th Street;
thence Southerly along the Westerly line of East 79th Street, 34 feet
to the place of beginning and being
a parcel of land having a frontage
of 34 feet on the Westerly side of
East 79th Street, and extending
back of equal width 132 feet deep,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to restrictions and easements contained in deeds recorded n
Volume 138 age 90, and Volume 1368,
Page
575
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records.
Also subject to zoning ordinances.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-034 as
more fully described below, to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-34-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot No. 5 in John Luscenden s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre No. 336, as shown by

1521

101
the recorded plat of said Subdivision
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 57 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly side of
East 79th Street (formerly East
Madison Avenue) at the Southeasterly corner of said Sublot No. 5;
thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said Sublot No. 5, 132 feet;
thence Northerly parallel with the
Westerly line of East 79th Street; 32
feet; thence Easterly, parallel with
the first described line 132 feet to
the Westerly line of East 79th
Street; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of East 79th Street 32
feet to the place of beginning, and
being a parcel of land having a
frontage of 32 feet on the Westerly
side of East 79th Street and extending back between parallel lines 132
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-037 as
more fully described, to Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-34-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 3 in John Lussenden’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 336 as shown
by the recorded plat in Vol. 3 of
Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga County
Records, bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line of
Quincy Avenue S.E., at the southwesterly corner or said Sublot No. 3;
thence Easterly along the Northerly
line of Quincy Avenue S.E. 49-1/2
feet; thence Northerly parallel with
the Westerly line of Sublot No. 4, 127
feet 9 inches; thence Westerly parallel with the Northerly line of Quincy Avenue, S.E. 49 feet 4.6 inches to
the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
3; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot No. 3, 127
feet 9 inches to the place of beginning, be the same more or less.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-038 as
more fully described below, to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-34-038
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
No. 2 in John Lussenden’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 336 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
57
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 50 feet front on
the Northerly side of Quincy Avenue

102
S.E., (formerly Wade Street), 187
feet 9 inches deep on the Easterly
line, 187 feet 9 inches deep on the
Westerly line and 49 feet 10 inches
in the rear, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-039 as
more fully described below, to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-34-039
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being Sublot No.1 in
John Lussenden’s Allotment of part
of Original 100 Acre Lot No.336, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga
County Records. Said Sublot No.3
has a frontage of 50 feet on the
Northerly side of Quincy Avenue,
S.E., and extends back 187-9/12 feet
on the Easterly line, 187-9/12 feet on
the Westerly line, and has a rear
line of 49-10/12 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-132 as
more fully described below, to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-34-132
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
in the County of Cuyahoga, and
State of Ohio, indicated on the County Auditor’s Records as /Permanent
Number 118-34-132 and known as
being part of Sublot No. 36 in John
Lussenden’s Subdivision of part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 336, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, 1Page 57 of Cuyahoga County Records, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 77th Street (50 feet wide) at a
point distant Northerly (measured
along said Easterly line), 115-75/100
feet from its intersection with the
Northerly line of Quincy Avenue, (60
feet wide); thence Easterly parallel
with the Northerly line of Quincy
Avenue, 70 feet; thence Northerly
parallel with the Easterly line of
East 77th Street, 12 feet; thence
Westerly parallel with the Northerly line of Quincy Avenue, 70 feet to
the Easterly line of East 77th Street;
thence Southerly along the Easterly
line of East 77th Street, 12 feet to
the place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

The City Record
plies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-133 as
more fully described below, to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-34-133
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being parcel of
land bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the Easterly line of East 77th Street (formerly Lussenden Street) distant 1579/12 feet Northerly from the center
line of Quincy Avenue; thence Easterly and at right angles to said
Easterly line of East 77th Street
(formerly Lussenden Street) 100 feet
to the Easterly line of lands formerly owned by Martha H. Willis;
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line 30 feet; thence Westerly and
parallel with the Southerly line of
this said parcel of land 100 feet to
the Easterly line of East 77th Street
(formerly Lussenden Street); thence
Southerly along said street line 30
feet to the place of beginning,
intending by this description to
describe a parcel of land 30 feet
wide and 100 feet in length and
which is a part of Sublot No. 36 in
John Lussenden’s Subdivision of
part of Original Lot No. 336 in said
City as recorded in Volume 3, Page
57 of Maps of Cuyahoga County
Records, be the same more less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-134 as
more fully described below, to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 118-34-134
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being a part of
Sublot No. 36, of John Lussenden’s
Allotment of a part of Original 100
Acre Lot No. 336, bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Easterly line of East 77th Street (formerly Lussenden Avenue) 217 0/12
feet Northerly from the center of
Quincy Street; thence Easterly along
the Northerly line of said Lot No. 36,
100 feet to the Northeasterly corner
of said lot, thence Southerly along
the Easterly line of said lot 30 feet
to land conveyed to Gottlieb Meyer;
thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said Gottlieb Meyer’s
lands 100 feet to the Easterly line
of
East
77th
Street
(formerly
Lussenden Avenue) thence Northerly along said Easterly line of East
77th Street (formerly Lussneden
Avenue) 30 feet to the place of
beginning.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the

1522

August 15, 2007
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-135 as
more fully described below, to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-34-135
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being part of
Sublot No. 35 in John Lussenden’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 336, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Allotment in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 57
of Cuyahoga County Records. Said
part of Sublet No. 35 is bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 77th Street (formerly Lussendon Avenue) at the Southwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 35; thence
Northerly along the Easterly line of
East 77th Street, 25 feet 6 inches;
thence Easterly parallel with the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 25,
120 feet; thence Southerly parallel
with the Easterly line of East 77th
Street, 26 feet 6 inches to the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 35;
thence Westerly along said Southerly line, 120 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the came more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 21. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 22. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 23. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 24. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 823-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Cognos Corporation to maintain existing software licenses, to
acquire additional software licenses,
and to perform professional services
for operation of the Financial Information System, including software
maintenance for a period up to five
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Cognos Corporation for professional services for maintenance of
existing software licenses used for
the existing Financial Information
System, on the basis of its proposal
dated May 21, 2007, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to five years
for each individual license.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with Cognos Corporation for professional services necessary to acquire new software licenses and to perform as-needed services for the Financial Information System, including but not limited to, integration, implementation,
migration, installation, upgrades, enhancements, design, training, training registration, testing, and technical support, and software maintenance on licenses for a period up to
five years for each license acquired
under this section, on the basis of
its proposal dated May 21, 2007, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
any
third-party
software
license
agreements necessary to effectuate
the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 4. That the contract or
contracts shall be paid from Fund
No. 52 SF 001, Request No. 173648.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 825-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain plate trucks, for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one or
two years of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
repair and maintain plate trucks, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Utilities by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 170522)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 827-07.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the Alger Road
area sewer system, which may include but not be limited to installing

1523

103
manholes and catch basins, and
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the Alger Road
area sewer system, which may include but not be limited to installing
manholes and catch basins, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
one or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding on
a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 54 SF 001,
Request No. 170517.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 829-07.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the East 177th
Street area sewer system, which
may include but not be limited to
installing
manholes
and
catch
basins, and authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into one
or more public improvement contracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the East 177th
Street area sewer system, which
may include but not be limited to

104
installing
manholes
and
catch
basins, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for
the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding on
a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 54 SF 001,
Request No. 170519.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 831-07.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the West 127th
Street area sewer system, which
may include but not be limited to
installing
manholes
and
catch
basins, and authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into one
or more public improvement contracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the West 127th
Street area sewer system, which
may include but not be limited to
installing
manholes
and
catch
basins, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for
the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding on
a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may

The City Record
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 54 SF 001,
Request No. 170521.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 834-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to paint 800
MHz radio communication towers,
cables, and mounted structures for
the Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one or two year
period of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
paint 800 MHz radio communication
towers, cables, and mounted structures in the estimated sum of
$400,000.00, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Utilities by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 153592)

1524

August 15, 2007
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 893-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with KUBRA Data Transfer Ltd. for
professional services necessary to
design, integrate, install, operate,
test and maintain on-line bill paying
and electronic bill viewing capabilities, and other e-billing solutions,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, including training, support,
and maintenance, for a period up to
one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with KUBRA Data Transfer Ltd. for
professional services necessary to
design, integrate, install, operate,
test and maintain on-line bill paying
and electronic bill viewing capabilities, and other e-billing solutions,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, including training, support,
and maintenance, for a period up to
one year, on the basis of its proposal
dated May 31, 2007, for the Department of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the contract or
contracts shall require that KUBRA
Data Transfer Ltd. have and maintain a signed agreement with Emergis Technologies, Inc. to license
their electronic invoice and payment
patent (patent 362). The contract or
contracts shall also include, but not
be limited to, terms that provide
warranties to the City and indemnification of the City for infringement
and other potential claims.
Section 3. The contract or contracts shall not exceed $10,000 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 58 SF
001, Request No. 168740.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

August 15, 2007
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 895-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of duct line,
street lighting bases and pull boxes,
including labor and materials necessary to install, repair, replace or
maintain the duct line, street lighting bases and pull boxes, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for one or two year period of the necessary items of duct
line, street lighting bases and pull
boxes, including labor and materials
to install, repair, replace or maintain the duct line, street lighting
bases and pull boxes, in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term. The Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts with a term of
two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance,
a financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Public Utilities by comparing the bids received
for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 168725)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors

The City Record
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 896-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of test equipment, including labor and materials
for the maintenance, repair, or
replacement of test equipment, and
training as nec essary, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one or two year
period of the necessary items of test
equipment and labor and materials
for the maintenance, repair, or
replacement of test equipment, and
training as necessary, in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term. The Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts with a term of
two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance,
a financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Public Utilities by comparing the bids received
for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of

1525

105
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 168724)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 897-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement
contracts
of
utility
poles and labor and materials to
test, remove, and replace deteriorating utility poles, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one or two year
period of the necessary items of utility poles and labor and materials to
test, remove, and replace deteriorating
poles,
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term. The Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts with a term of
two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance,
a financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Public Utilities by comparing the bids received
for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be

106
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 168724)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 914-07.
By Council Members Lewis, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
portion of East 66th Place.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1720-06, adopted December 11, 2006,
this Council declared its intention to
vacate portions of East 12th Street
and St. Clair Avenue; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on May 2, 2007, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating portions
of the above and that it will not
be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
A portion of East 66th Place (12
feet wide), extending from the
southerly right of way line of Linwood Avenue N.E. (60 feet wide),
southerly approximately 250 feet to
the westerly prolongation of the
northerly line of sublot number 27
in
J.H.
Salisbury
Allotment
as
recorded in Volume 3, Page 43 of the
C.C.M.R.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,

The City Record
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for SBC/AT&T and Cleveland
Public Power.
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by
SBC/AT&T, Cleveland Public Power
and the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 984-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Ventyx for professional services necessary to maintain Ventyx
Customer Suite, Service Suite and
Asset Suite software, including new
releases, patches and fixes, technical support and product research
and improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts or
contract amendments with Ventyx
for professional services necessary
to maintain Ventyx Customer Suite,
Service Suite and Asset Suite software,
including
new
releases,
patches and fixes, technical support
and product research and improvement, for two-one year maintenance
agreements, on the basis of its proposal dated May 3, 2007, in the total
sum of $139,522 for the first year
and an approximate amount of
$139,522, plus the applicable consumer price index factor for the second year, for the Department of Public Utilities. The contract or contracts shall be paid from Fund No.
58 SF 001, Request No. 168731.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

1526

August 15, 2007
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1026-07.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 176-A-05,
passed May 2, 2005, to appropriate
an amount per paid ticket for a
photo-enforced traffic offenses to
the credit of the Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal Court and the Parking Violations Bureau for the costs
incurred by them in conducting the
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 4 of Ordinance No. 176-A-05, passed May 2,
2005, is amended to read as follows:
Section 4. That an amount fixed
by the Board of Control, which
amount shall not exceed $10.00 per
paid ticket, shall be paid to the
office of the Clerk of the Cleveland
Municipal Court and the Parking
Violations Bureau for the costs
incurred by them to conduct this
program, and this amount per paid
ticket is appropriated to this purpose.
Section 2. That existing Section 4
of Ordinance No. 176-A-05, passed
May 2, 2005, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1028-07.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1834-06,
passed March 12, 2007, relating to
authorizing the Director of Law to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Criminal Justice Services Agency for the 2007 Team Approach to
Domestic Violence program (Prosecution).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1834-06, passed March 12,
2007, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 1834-06-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation and shall not be changed without additional legislative authority,

August 15, 2007
including the obligation of the City
of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds in the sum of $48,633.67,
from Fund No. 01-100101-639905, is
approved in all respects.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 1834-06, passed
March 12, 2007, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1029-07.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by enacting
new Sections 149.11 and 413.032
thereof, and to amend Section 5 of
Ordinance No. 176-A-05, passed May
2, 2005, to authorize the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Clerk of
the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
enter into contract for professional
services to collect unpaid judgments, costs, and other receivables
of the Court, including unpaid tickets for photo-enforced red light and
speeding offenses and unpaid parking infraction judgments.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 149.11 and 413.032 thereof, to
read as follows:
Section 149.11 Contracts for Collection Services on Behalf of the
Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal
Court
(a) The Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Clerk of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is authorized to
enter into a contract or contracts for
professional services necessary to
collect any or all of all of the following:
(1) financial sanctions imposed
upon misdemeanor offenders under
R.C. Section 2929.28, civil judgments,
criminal judgments converted to
civil judgments, fees, costs, and
other receivables of the Cleveland
Municipal Court;
(2) unpaid notices of liability for
photo-enforced red light and speeding offenses issued under Section
413.031;
(3)
unpaid
parking
infraction
judgments and default judgments;
(4) restitution payments in cases
in which payment is a receivable of
the Court.
(b) Any collection contract entered into under the authority of this
section may include in its scope the
collection of any or all receivables
of the Cleveland Municipal Court
whether or not expressly listed in
division (a). The types of receivables listed in division (a) are illus-

The City Record
trative only and shall not limit the
scope of collection work that may
be included in the contract.
(c) In any case in which it is not
already provided that the debtor is
liable for the costs of collection under
any provision of the Codified Ordinances or state law, or any rule of
court or judgment entry, the debtor
may be assessed a fee under this
division in an amount equal to the
costs paid by the City to any vendor
for the costs of collection of the debt.
(d) The cost of each contract
authorized by this section shall be
paid from any proper appropriation
accounts including any fund to
which are credited the following
fees, which are appropriated for this
purpose:
(1) the fee established under division (c) of this section;
(2) the fee established by Section
413.032 assessing to persons liable
for unpaid tickets for photo-enforced
red light camera or speeding offenses the costs paid by the City to any
vendor for the costs of collection of
the debt;
(3) the fee established under Section 459.03 assessing to judgment
debtors on unpaid parking infraction judgments or default judgments
the costs paid by the City to any
vendor for the costs of collection of
the debt;
(4) any other fee established by
the Codified Ordinances or state
law, or rule of court or judgment
entry that imposes upon a debtor
the cost of colleting a receivable of
the Court.
Section 413.032 Costs of Collection
of
Unpaid
Tickets
for
PhotoEnforced Offenses
In addition to any other fees or
charges authorized by these codified
ordinances in relation to the commission of a violation of division
(b) or division (c) of Section 413.031,
a person liable for the penalties
established by division (o) of Section 413.031 may be assessed a fee
under this section in an amount
equal to the costs paid by the City
to any vendor for the costs of collection of the debt.
Section 2. That Section 5 of Ordinance No. 176-A-05, passed May 2,
2005, is amended to read as follows:
Section 5. That the Cleveland
Municipal Court or the Clerk of the
Cleveland Municipal Court, through
their own resources of through contract with an outside vendor, under
the authority of Section 149.11 or
other authority, may pursue the collection of any tickets that remain
unpaid after the requisite notices
have been sent to the liable party
and all other pre-collection obligations of the consultant or consultants employed under the authority
of Section 2 are completed.
Section 3. That existing Section 5
of Ordinance No. 176-A-05, passed
May 2, 2005, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

1527

107
Ord. No. 1030-07.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 181.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2725-89,
passed December 18, 1989, relating
to purchases not exceeding $10,000.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 181.08 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2725-89, passed December 18, 1989, is amended to read as
follows:
Section 181.08 Purchases Not Exceeding $10,000
All purchase or contracts involving an expenditure of not more than
$10,000 shall, whenever possible, be
based on at least three bids and
shall be awarded to the lowest and
best bidder giving full consideration
to the goals set forth in division
(c)(1) of Section 187.03 of these
Codified Ordinances. The Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
shall post a list of the requisitions
requesting the purchases on a bulletin board open to public inspection
for a period of not less than fortyeight hours prior to the time fixed
for the taking of bids, and if no satisfactory bid is received under the
posting, he shall solicit bids by
direct mail or by telephone to
prospective vendors. Anything in the
foregoing notwithstanding, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized under Section 108(b)
of the Charter to purchase supplies,
services, materials and equipment
through cooperative agreements involving an expenditure of not more
than $10,000 using state procedures
and may sign all documents with
the State of Ohio or any of its political subdivisions that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may
enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected though
that cooperative process.
Section 2. That existing Section
181.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 2725-89, passed
December 18, 1989, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1031-07.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 181.12 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2725-89,
passed December 18, 1989, relating
to emergency purchases and contracts.

108
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 181.12 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2725-89, passed December 18, 1989, is amended to read as
follows:
Section 181.12
Emergency Purchases and Contracts
(a) When an emergency occurs
requiring an immediate purchase to
prevent an interruption of public
service that would endanger public
health, safety or welfare, as declared and determined by the department director or designee, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, affording as much competition
as is practical under the circumstances, may make the purchase
notwithstanding that the expenditure exceeds $10,000 when the Mayor
and the President of Council determine the immediate purchase is necessary to prevent an interruption of
public service that would endanger
public health, safety or welfare, provided that the purchase and the
nature of the emergency shall be
reported to Council at the next regular meeting following the authorization of such purchase.
(b) Nothing contained in this section shall authorize any contract for
service to be performed beyond the
period of the second meeting of
Council following the authorization
of the contract by the empowered
officials.
Section 2. That existing Section
181.12 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 2725-89, passed
December 18, 1989, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1032-07.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 181.103 relating to
recognition of electronic records and
signatures.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976, are supplemented by enacting new Section 181.103 to read as
follows:

The City Record
Section 181.103
Recognition of
Electronic Records and Signatures
(a) For purposes of this section:
(1) “Contract” means the total
legal obligation that results from
the parties’ agreement.
(2) “Electronic” means relating to
technology having electrical, digital,
magnetic, wireless, optical, electromagnetic, or similar capabilities.
(3) “Electronic record” means a
record created, generated, sent, communicated, received, or stored by
electronic means.
(4) “Electronic signature” means
an electronic sound, symbol, or process attached to or logically associated with a record and executed or
adopted by a person with the intent
to sign the record.
(5) “Reverse auction” means a
purchasing process in which offerors submit bids or proposals in competing to sell services or supplies
though a internet software system
in accordance with the rules and
regulations adopted by the Director
of Finance under division (m) of
this section.
(6) “Record” means information
that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
(b) This section applies only to
transactions where the party agrees
to conduct transactions by electronic means. Whether the party agrees
to conduct a transaction by electronic means is determined from the
context and surrounding circumstances, including the party’s conduct.
(c) A party that agrees to conduct
a transaction by electronic means
with the City of Cleveland may
refuse to conduct other transactions
with the City of Cleveland by electronic means. The right granted by
this division may not be waived by
agreement.
(d) The director of the department involved may use electronic
records and electronic signatures to
form any contract for the sale or
purchase of goods.
(e) A record or signature may not
be denied legal effect or enforceability solely because it is in electronic form.
(f) A contract may not be denied
legal effect or enforceability solely
because an electronic record was
used in its formation.
(g) If a law or ordinance requires
a record to be in writing, an electronic
record satisfies the requirement.
(h) If a law or ordinance requires
a signature, an electronic signature
satisfies the requirement.
(i) If a law or ordinance requires
a record to be acknowledged, certified, or approved, the requirement is
satisfied if the electronic signature
of the person authorized to perform
those acts, together with all other
information required to be included
by other applicable law or ordinance, is attached to or logically
associated with the record.
(j) An electronic record or electronic signature is attributable to a
person if it was the act of the person. The act of the person may be
shown in any manner, including a
showing of the efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine
the person to which the electronic
record or electronic signature is
attributable.
(k) Whenever the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies deter-

1528

August 15, 2007
mines that the use of a reverse auction is an advantageous method to
purchase services or supplies, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies may purchase services or supplies by reverse auction.
(l) If a law or ordinance requires
a purchase of services or supplies by
a competitive sealed bid or sealed
request for proposal, a contract to
purchase services or supplies made
though a reverse auction or an electronic record received through an
internet software system in accordance with the rules and regulations
adopted by the Director of Finance
pursuant to division (m) of this section satisfies the requirement.
(m) The Director of Finance may
adopt rules and regulations to carry
out the provisions of this section,
including but not limited to setting
forth all of the following, which
shall be effective thirty (30) days
after publication in the City Record:
(1) The requirements for the
method of creation, maintenance,
and security of electronic records
and electronic signatures.
(2) If electronic records is signed
by electronic means, all of the following:
A. The type of electronic signature required;
B. The manner and format in
which the electronic signature must
be affixed to the electronic record;
(3) The security procedure that
evidences the person to which the
electronic record, electronic signature, or bid or proposal submitted
though a reverse auction is attributable.
(4) Control processes and procedures as appropriate to ensure adequate preservation, integrity, security, confidentiality, and auditability
of electronic records and bids and
proposals
offerors
submit
in
a
reverse auction.
(5) The procedural and substantive requirements for the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
purchase services or supplies by
reverse auction.
(6) Any other required attributes
for electronic records, electronic signatures, or reverse auctions that are
specified for corresponding non-electronic
records,
nonelectronic
signatures, or nonelectronic procurement practices that are reasonably,
commercially, or legally necessary
under the circumstances.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1034-07.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 181.102 relating to the
authorization to purchase software
updates, licenses, maintenance and
technical support.

August 15, 2007
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 181.102 to read as follows:
Section 181.102
Authorization to
Purchase Software Updates, Licenses,
Maintenance and Technical Support
(a) When a director is authorized by ordinance to purchase
software,
the
director
of
the
department for which the purchase
is made or the Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into one or
more standard purchase or requirement contracts duly let to the lowest and best bidder as provided in
Section 181.10, for one or more software licenses, upgrades, training,
technical
support,
maintenance,
and repair necessary for the authorized software.
(b) When a director is authorized
by ordinance to purchase software,
the director of the department for
which the purchase is made or the
Director of Finance is authorized to
acquire by contract or contracts
with one or more software developers or vendors or one or more firms
of software developers or vendors,
the software licenses, upgrades,
training, technical support, maintenance, and repair necessary for the
authorized software. The selection
of the computer software developers or vendors shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination
of the director of the department
for which the purchase is made or
the Director of Finance from lists
of
qualified
computer
software
developers or vendors available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass
by the director of the department
for which the purchase is made or
the Director of Finance for the purpose of compiling the lists. The
compensation to be paid shall be
fixed by the Board of Control and
paid from the annual appropriation
made for such purpose. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the director of the
department for which the purchase
is made or the Director of Finance,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
(c) When a director is authorized
by ordinance to purchase software,
the director of the department for
which the purchase is made or the
Director of Finance is authorized
to execute one or more license
agreements for software authorized
directly with the firm or firms
licensing the software.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1035-07.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of long distance telephone service for all City
voice and fax lines, for the Division
of Information Technology and Services, Department of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year of the necessary items of long distance telephone service for all City voice and
fax
lines,
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Information Technology and
Services, Department of Finance.
Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 142244)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Finance may sign all
documents with the State of Ohio or
any of its political subdivisions that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1036-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants computer software de-

1529

109
velopers, vendors, or computer software vendors to provide professional services necessary to implement
Phases 3 and 4 of the Customer
Information System/Customer Relations Management System; authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more amendments for various professional
services
contracts
and
leases for the Project; and authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services
for the Project; and authorizing the
Director to lease certain telecommunications and network lines and
other related facilities from AT&T,
or its successor in interest, necessary to implement the Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants, computer software developers, or vendors or one
or more firms of consultants, computer software developers, or vendors for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of
the several departments of the City
of Cleveland for implementing Phases 3 and 4 of the Customer Information System/Customer Relations
Management System (“CIS/CRM”)
Project, including but not limited to,
assessing, managing, installing, designing, configuring, training, implementing, testing, integrating, linking, migrating, optimizing and other
related services necessary to interface the Oracle/SPL billing system,
or other selected billing system, to
other related systems and software
solutions that share information
with the billing system and for
other components of the Project;
performing feasibility studies, business case assessments, gap analyses,
readiness assessments
and
other
related assessments and studies,
business process design and re-engineering service, project management
services, temporary staffing, staff
augmentation and training services,
web page and web access services,
hosting services, applications management services, and business services related to reporting, bill production, printing, mailing, and payment receipt processing and collection services.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more computer software vendors
or one or more firms of computer
software vendors for the purpose of
supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland for
one or more licenses for related
hardware, software, and related system equipment necessary to implement the CIS/CRS system.
Section 3. The selection of the consultants,
computer
software
developers, vendors, or computer software vendors for the services shall
be made by the Board of Control on
the nomination of the Director of
Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for
the purpose of compiling a list. The

110
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into any third-party hardware,
software
and
related
equipment
license agreements necessary to
effectuate the purposes of this ordinance, including maintenance and
support for software, hardware, and
related system equipment.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more written contracts for subsequent training, maintenance and support services for software, hardware, and related system
equipment, for a period up of two,
three, or five years with an option
to renew for two additional one, two
or three-year terms, exercisable by
the Director of Public Utilities. The
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with a term of three or five
years instead of two years when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance,
a financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Public Utilities by comparing the bids received
for all terms.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter
into one or more contract amendments to any professional services
contracts entered into under Phases
1, 2, or the uncompleted portion of
Phase 3 of the CIS/CRM Project.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for period up to two
years of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services necessary to implement the
CIS/CRM Project, including but not
limited to hardware, software, related equipment and computer supplies
not covered under the professional
services described above, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire term.
Section 8. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 9. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agree-

The City Record
ments using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 10. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into an amendment to Lease
Agreement No. 62290 with Penton
Media, Inc. to extend the term of the
lease
for
approximately
28,766
square feet of office space located
on the fourth floor of the Penton
Media Building at 1300 East 9th
Street, Cleveland Ohio, for an additional two year period, with an
option to renew for an additional
ten-month period, exercisable by the
Director of Public Utilities, for an
amount not to exceed $1,314,032.
Section 11. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into an amendment to the
Lease Agreement with Standard
Parking, Inc., or its successor in
interest, entered into under Ordinance No. 2318-03, passed November
24, 2003, to extend the term of the
lease for approximately 24 parking
spaces located at Standard Parking,
Inc.’s parking facility at 1300 East
9th Street, for a term concurrent
with Lease Amendment No. 62290
authorized by this ordinance, including the option to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Utilities,
for
an
amount
not
to
exceed
$179,520.
Section 12. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more leases for telecommunications and network lines, and
other related facilities from AT&T,
or its successor in interest, for Division of Water facilities as necessary
for the completion of the CIS/CRM
Project and operation of the resulting system.
Section 13. That the term of the
lease or leases authorized shall not
exceed sixty months.
Section 14. That the leases shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain any terms and
conditions as are required to protect
the interests of the City.
Section 15. That the Director of
Public Utilities, the Director of Law,
and other appropriate City officials
are authorized to execute any other
documents and certificates, and take
any other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
leases authorized by this ordinance.
Section 16. That the cost of the contracts, contract amendments, leases,
and lease amendments authorized
under this ordinance shall be paid
from Fund No. 52 SF 001, Request
No. 162549.
Section 17. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

1530

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1037-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to design, print, format,
and distribute water and sewer bills,
bill inserts, and other billing-related
notices, for a period up to two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to design, print, format, and distribute water and sewer
bills, bill inserts, and other billingrelated notices, including but not
limited to, providing paper products,
storing paper and other printing
products, including postage, and providing other printing and mailing
distribution services that are necessary, for a period up to two years.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 162490.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1038-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with CASNET for professional services necessary to support and maintain scanner hardware used as part
of the OnBase Document Management System, for a period of one
year with a one-year option to
renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

August 15, 2007
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with CASNET for professional services necessary to support and
maintain scanner hardware used as
part of the OnBase Document Management System for a period of one
year, with a one-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of Public Utilities, on the basis of
its proposal dated May 10, 2007, in
the total sum of $48,325.85, for the
Department of Public Utilities. The
contracts or contracts shall be paid
from Fund No. 52 SF 001, Request
No. 162468. The Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage to the City. For purposes of
this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined by the
Director of Public Utilities by comparing the proposals received for
both terms.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1039-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with Datamatic, Ltd. for professional services necessary to provide
maintenance and repair of meter
reading, collections, investigations
and meter maintenance systems,
including hardware and softwaresupport based, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one year, with
four one-year options to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with Datamatic, Ltd. for professional services necessary to provide
maintenance and repair of meter
reading, collections, investigations
and meter maintenance systems,
including hardware and softwaresupport based, in the total sum of
$184,017.85 for a one year period,
with four options to renew for additional one-year consecutive terms,
exercisable by the Director, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities. The contracts or
contracts shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 52 SF 001, Request No. 162475.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

The City Record
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1040-07.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 2077-06, passed February 5, 2007,
relating to one or more contracts
with iTRACS for professional services necessary to provide and
install new and upgraded software
necessary to expand current modules, for the Department of Public
Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2077-06,
passed February 5, 2007, are amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
with iTRACS for professional services necessary to provide and
install new and upgraded software
necessary to expand current modules, including software support, for
a period of three years.
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with iTRACS for professional services necessary to provide and
install new and upgraded software
necessary to expand current modules, including software support for
a period of three years in the total
sum of $240,122.40, for the Department of Public Utilities. The contract or contracts shall be paid from
Fund No. 52 SF 001, Request Nos.
176752 and 162558.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 207706, passed February 5, 2007, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1041-07.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more Memorandums of Agreement with Continental Airlines and The Department of
Homeland Security’s Transportation
Security Administration to imple-

1531

111
ment an automated, in-line checked
baggage screening system located
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport.
Whereas, The Department of Homeland Security’s Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”) has provided funding for construction of an
automated, in-line checked baggage
screening system at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport to significantly increase the capacity for
Continental Airlines to process checked baggage; and
Whereas, in November 2006, construction of the automated, in-line
checked baggage system was completed; and
Whereas, TSA guidelines state
that funding associated with purchasing and installing the automated, in-line checked baggage system
shall only be granted to Airports;
and
Whereas, the City, Continental
Airlines and TSA agree that Continental Airlines will take responsibility for maintenance of the automated,
in-line
checked
baggage
screening system; and
Whereas, an agreement between
the City and Continental Airlines is
necessary to memorialize, among
other things, Continental Airlines’
obligation to maintain the automated, in-line checked baggage screening system and to pursue all warranty claims for items and events
covered under warranties; and
Whereas, an agreement between
the City and TSA is necessary to
memorialize, among other things,
the City’s obligation to maintain certain non-screening equipment and
structures located in the screening
area, identified as facility modifications performed under this improvement, including the baggage handling conveyor system; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more Memorandums of
Agreement with Continental Airlines and The Department of Homeland Security’s Transportation Security Administration to implement
an automated, in-line checked baggage screening system located at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport.
Section 2. That the Memorandums
of Agreement authorized between
the Director of Port Control, Continental Airlines and TSA for the
purposes of this ordinance, shall
run simultaneously and shall be for
a term of ninety-nine years, or
upon concurrent cancellation by all
three
parties,
whichever
occurs
first.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

112
Ord. No. 1042-07.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
establish an Airline Incentive Program and to enter into contracts
with new entrant and/or scheduled
airlines under such program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to establish an
Airline Incentive Program to provide
new entrant and/or existing Scheduled Airlines with a financial incentive to establish new destinations not
currently offered from Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and/or
to increase the number of flights
serving existing destinations.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with new
entrant and/or existing Scheduled
Airlines under this program to provide marketing funds to such airlines based on a specific service
market and frequency of service or
to allow landing fee credits for a
period not to exceed five years, with
five one-year options to renew, as
approved by Council after obtaining
additional legislative authority. Expenditures for marketing shall not
exceed $1 million over life of the
program. The contracts shall also
provide, but not be limited to, the
following:
a. To qualify for the program, new
service
or
more-frequent
service
must operate for a minimum of
twelve (12) consecutive months. To
qualify for the program, an airline
may convert seasonal service to
year-round service and thereafter
operate the route for a minimum of
eighteen (18) months. The minimum
periods of operation set forth in this
section may be reduced by the
Director of Port Control for good
cause shown.
b. For an airline to receive the
full amount of marketing funds, it
must match 50% of the funds given
to it by the City. If 50% of the City’s
funds are not matched, the Director
of Port Control shall reduce the
amount of marketing funds made
available to the airline and the airline shall not be eligible to request
a credit.
c. The requirements of this Section 2c must be followed regardless
of the amount of funds given or
credited to an airline. At least 50%
of the total funds (including the airline’s match) must be used toward
promotional and/or advertising purposes. Of the amount used for promotional and/or advertising purposes, at least 50% of the funds
must be directed to the Northern
Ohio media market and must utilize
the CLE logo or mention Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport within the promotion and/or advertisements unless otherwise approved by
the Director of Port Control. Any
remaining funds not required to be
spent on advertising can solely be
used as follows: 1) projects that
enhance the areas leased by the airline at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; or 2) in lieu of receiving up to 50% of the funds otherwise allowable under this ordinance
for non-promotional or advertising
purposes, the airline may request

The City Record
that the Director of Port Control
approve issuing a landing fee credit in the amount that would otherwise be payable to the airline as an
incentive payment under this ordinance, but only if the airline has
provided the full match described in
Section 2.b.
Section 3. That the Airline Incentive Program shall provide a commensurate benefit to general aviation users of the Airport System pursuant to a formula consistent with
the covenants of the City in the
Fourth
Supplemental
Trust
Indenture dated as of February 1, 2001,
the Fifth Supplemental Trust Indenture dated as of October 15, 2003 and
the
Eighth
Supplemental
Trust
Indenture dated as of November 1,
2006
(the
“Supplemental
Indentures”), each between the City and
The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee, supplementing and amending the Trust
Indenture dated as of November 1,
1976 (the “Indenture”) between the
City and The Cleveland Trust Company, as initial trustee, securing the
City’s outstanding Airport Revenue
Bonds, as the Indenture and the Supplemental Indentures may be further
supplemented and amended, from
time to time, which formula shall
not take effect or be amended until
approved by the Director of Finance,
who may, as necessary, consult with
bond counsel.
Section 4. That on or before the
end or each calendar year of the
program, an amount equal to the
total incentive payments or credits
awarded under the program shall be
moved from Fund Nos. 60 SF 106 and
60 SF 141 to Fund No. 60 SF 001, and
Council appropriates the funds for
this purpose.
Section 5. That the contract or
contracts entered into under this
ordinance shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 60 SF 106 and 60 SF 141,
Request No. 158699.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1043-07.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at the southwest corner of
Champion Avenue and West 100th
Street to Mary K. Pikus.
Whereas, the Director of Public
Service has requested the sale of the
City-owned property to Mary E.
Pikus no longer needed for public
use and located at the southwest
corner of Champion Avenue and
West 100th Street; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1532

August 15, 2007
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
the following described property is
no longer needed for public use:
P. P. No. 017-13-023
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being the Southerly 25 feet of Sublot No. 180 in the
Hill Crest Subdivision of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lots
Nos. 14 and 15, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 41 of Maps,
Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records,
and also being a part of West 101st
Place, now vacated, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 247 of Maps,
Page
49
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. And together forming a parcel of land being 25 feet front on the
Westerly side of West 100th Street
and extending back of equal width
133.69 feet, as appears by said plats,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to sell the abovedescribed property to Mary E. Pikus
at a price not less than $1.00, and
other valuable considerations, which
is determined to be fair market value
by the Board of Control, taking into
account all restrictions, reversionary
interests and similar encumbrances
placed by the City of Cleveland in the
deed of conveyance.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain necessary provisions,
including restrictive reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require
and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any
advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1044-07.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into an agreement with the
Ohio Department of Transportation
to install ornamental fencing on the
West 14th Street Bridge over I-490.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into
an agreement with the Ohio Department of Transportation to replace

August 15, 2007
existing fencing on the West 14th
Street Bridge over I-490 with an aesthetic vandal-protection fence.
Section 2. That the cost of the
agreement shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 364, 20 SF 373, 20 SF 380,
20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF 500, 20
SF 506 and 20 SF 510, Request No.
173295.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1046-07.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of one replacement gate
for movable bridges, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
one replacement gate for movable
bridges to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis, for the Division of
Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service.
Section 2. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchase
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director Public Service of may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchase, and may enter into contract
or contracts with the vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 364,
20 SF 373, 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20
SF 394, 20 SF 500, and 20 SF 506,
Request No. 173291.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1047-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from

The City Record
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the Cuyahoga County
Public Health Collaborative Program; authorizing the Director to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide marketing,
education, and awareness services;
to enter into one or more requirement contracts necessary to implement the program; to enter into one
or more contracts with Executive
Information Systems LLC to acquire
license updates and any upgrades
for SAS; authorizing the purchase or
lease of television and radio advertising time and other media; and
authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies necessary to implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $400,000, and
any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health to conduct the Cuyahoga
County Public Health Collaborative
Program; that the Director of Public Health is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the administrative summary for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1047-07-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority, is
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide marketing, education, and
awareness services.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Health from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Health for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Health, and certified by the
Director of Finance.

1533

113
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the necessary items of equipment
and supplies needed to implement
the program. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than the grant term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 7. That the costs of the
requirement contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director
of
Finance shall certify the amount of
the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director.
Section 8. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Health may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 9. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
Executive Information Systems LLC
for the acquisition of one or more
license updates and any upgrades
for SAS, including but not limited to
installation, design, training, testing, technical support, server components, integration software and
software maintenance for a period
of one year.
Section 10. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the purchase or lease, during the
grant term, of television and radio
advertising time and other media,
for the Department of Public Health.
Section 11. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with various entities for the implementation
of the program as described in the
file.
Section 12. That the cost of the
contracts authorized by this ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 13. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

114
Ord. No. 1049-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept grants from
the Cleveland Foundation and St.
Luke’s Foundation for the Motivating Movement through Marathoning
Program; authorizing the Director to
enter into an agreement with the
Cleveland Municipal School District;
and authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies, entities, or
individuals to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept grants in the approximate aggregate amount of $93,055,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from the Cleveland Foundation
and St. Luke’s Foundation to conduct
the
Motivating
Movement
through Marathoning Program; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1049-07-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Cleveland Municipal School District
to implement the grant as described
in the file.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 7. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1050-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the Get It? Social Marketing and
Health Promotion Program; authorizing the Director to employ one or
more professional consultants to
provide marketing, education, and
awareness services; authorizing the
purchase by one or more requirement contracts of materials, equipment, supplies and services needed
to implement the program; authorizing the purchase or lease of television and radio advertising time and
other media; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies,
entities, or individuals to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $75,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Ohio Department of Health
to conduct the Get It? Social Marketing and Health Promotion Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes described in the summary
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1050-07-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public
Health
is
authorized
to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to provide marketing, education, and awareness services.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Health from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Health for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensa-

1534

August 15, 2007
tion to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Health, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant term of the necessary
items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Department of Public Health. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 7. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the purchase or lease, during the
grant term, of television and radio
advertising time and other media,
for the Department of Public Health.
Section 9. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Health of may
sign all documents with the State of
Ohio or any of its political subdivisions that are necessary to make the
purchases, and may enter into contract or contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 10. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 11. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1051-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the MomsFirst
and Invest in Children Partnership
Program; and authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement
contracts of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services needed to
implement the grant; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies,
entities,
or
individuals
to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $1,000,000,
and any other funds that may become available during the grant
term from Cuyahoga County to conduct the MomsFirst and Invest in
Children Partnership Program; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1051-07-A), made
a part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant period of the necessary items of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services necessary to
implement the grant, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Department of Public Health.
Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 6. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount

The City Record
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Health may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant as described in
the file, including but not limited to
outreach, case management, interconceptional care, health education,
and depression screening.
Section 9. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1052-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept grants from
the Cleveland Foundation and the
Woodruff Foundation for the Integrated Health Initiative Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to
apply for and accept grants in the
approximate aggregate amount of
$96,000, and any other funds that
may become available during the
grant terms from the Cleveland
Foundation
and
the
Woodruff
Foundation to conduct the Integrated Health Initiative Program;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grants; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes described in the summary
for the grants contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grants, File No. 1052-07-A, made
a part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects

1535

115
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grants
during the grant terms.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grants accepted under this ordinance into a fund or funds designated by the Director of Finance to
implement the program as described
in the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1053-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the Cities Readiness Initiative Program; authorizing the purchase by
one or more requirement contracts
of materials, equipment, supplies,
and services needed to implement
the program; authorizing the director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies to
implement the program; and authorizing the Director to employ one or
more professional consultants to
implement the program and authorizing the purchase or lease of television and radio advertising time
and other media.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $949,445, and any
other funds that may become available during the grant term from the
Ohio Department of Health to conduct the Cities Readiness Initiative
(“CRI”) Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1053-07-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority, is
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to imple-

116
ment the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
period of the grant term of the necessary items of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services necessary to
implement the program as described
in the file, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis, for the Department of Public Health. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as a
single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of
the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may
be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the requirements for the entire term.
Section 6. That the costs of the
contract or contracts shall be paid
from the fund or funds which are
credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance and shall be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 7. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements
using state procedures. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents with the State of Ohio or
any of its political subdivisions that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
implementation of the program with
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health and MetroHealth.
Section 9. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts or memoranda of understanding with various entities for the implementation
of the program as described in the
file.
Section 10. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 11. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
grant as described in the file,
including but not limited to providing marketing, education and
awareness services.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Health from a list of qualified con-

The City Record
sultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Health for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Health, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 12. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the purchase or lease, during the
grant term, of television and radio
advertising time and other media,
for the Department of Public Health.
Section 13. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds which are
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1054-07.
By Council Members Britt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
State and Territorial Injury Prevention Director’s Association for the
Safe Routes 2 School Injury Prevention Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $12,375, and any
other funds that may become available during the grant term from
State and Territorial Injury Prevention Director’s Association to conduct
the Safe Routes 2 School Injury Prevention Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1054-07-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance

1536

August 15, 2007
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1057-07.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties to accept cash donations from public and private entities
for the purpose of constructing the
Morgana Athletic Complex; and to
amend Section 9 of Ordinance No.
2151-03, passed December 15, 2003, as
amended, relating to City-owned park
and recreation improvements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to accept cash donations
from public and private entities for
the purpose of constructing the Morgana Athletic Complex. The Director is further authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the cash accepted under this ordinance, and on
acceptance of the cash by the Director, they shall be appropriated for
this purpose.
Section 2. That Section 9 of Ordinance No. 2151-03, passed December
15, 2003, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1308-04, passed August 11, 2004,
and Ordinance No. 2365-04, passed
January 24, 2005, is amended to read
as follows:
Section 9. That the cost of the contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF
354, 20 SF 361, 20 SF 370, 20 SF 377,
20 SF 382, 20 SF 392, 20 SF 501, 20
SF 504 and 20 SF 508, and for the
Morgana Athletic Complex only, contracts shall also be paid from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the cash donations received from
public or private entities for this
purpose, Request No. 107987.
Section 3. That existing Section 9
of Ordinance No. 2151-03, passed December 15, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1308-04, passed August 11,
2004, and Ordinance No. 2365-04,
passed January 24, 2005, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1059-07.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
one or more contracts with the
National Junior Tennis League of
Cleveland, Inc. to provide a summer
tennis program for 2007 and 2008.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the National Junior
Tennis League of Cleveland, Inc. to
provide tennis programs for youth
during the summers of 2007 and
2008.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall not exceed
$50,000 and shall be paid from Fund
No. 01-700401-638000, Request No.
164529.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1060-07.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts
of
electronic
parking
meters, for the Division of Parking
Facilities, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to make one or more
written contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or all
of the following items: electronic
parking meters to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies for a gross price, for the
Division of Parking Facilities, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties.
Section 2. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director
Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties of may sign all documents with the State of Ohio or any
of its political subdivisions that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into contract or contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall not exceed
$230,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 20 SF 510, Request No.
142570.

The City Record
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1061-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located on the east side of West 28th
Street and known as Permanent Parcel No. 003-38-049 to the Great Lakes
Brewing Company, or its designee.
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
sale of the City-owned property to
the Great Lakes Brewing Company,
or its designee (the “Redeveloper”)
no longer needed for public use and
located on the east side of West 28th
Street and known as Permanent Parcel No. 003-38-049; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for
public use:
P. P. No. 003-38-049
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
23 in D. Pollack’s Allotment as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 45, Page 453 of Cuyahoga County Map Records and being bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
West 28th Street (66 feet wide) at
the Northerly line of McLean Court,
N.W. (12 feet wide); said point being
at the Southwesterly corner of said
Sublot No. 23 and the principal place
of
beginning;
thence
Northerly,
along the said Easterly line of West
28th Street, 43.90 feet to a point at
the Northwesterly corner of said
Sublot No. 23; thence Easterly, along
the Northerly line of said Sublot No.
23, 119.63 feet to a point at the
Northeasterly corner thereof; thence
Southerly along the Easterly line of
said Sublot No. 23, 43.90 feet to the
Southeasterly
corner,
said
point
being in the Northerly line of
McLean Court, N.W.; thence Westerly along said Northerly line of
McLean Court, 119.63 feet to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described
property
to
the
Redeveloper at a fair market price
to be determined by the Board of

1537

117
Control, taking into account all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances placed by
the City of Cleveland in the deed of
conveyance.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require
and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any
advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1062-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to accept two Brownfields
Assessments grants from the United
States
Environmental
Protection
Agency to conduct environmental
assessments
on
brownfield
sites
located in the City of Cleveland
relating
to
their
redevelopment;
authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals needed to implement the grants;
authorizing the purchase by one or
more requirement contracts of materials, equipment, supplies, and services
needed
to
implement
the
grants; and authorizing the Director
to employ one or more professional
consultants needed to implement the
grants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept two Brownfields
Assessments grants, in the aggregate amount of $400,000, from the
United States Environmental Protection Agency to conduct environmental assessments on brownfield
sites located in the City of Cleveland relating to their redevelopment, to be used to implement the
grants as described in the file
below; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grants; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in the executive summary and award letter for
the grants contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the executive summary and award letter for the

118
grants, File No. 1062-07-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals needed to implement the grants.
Section 4. That the contract or
contracts authorized by this ordinance shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to make one or more written
requirement contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
requirements during the grant period of the necessary items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services
needed
to
implement
the
grants, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department
of
Economic
Development.
Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 6. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Economic Development
may sign all documents with the
State of Ohio or any of its political
subdivisions that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 8. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
implement the grants.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Director of Economic Development from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Economic Development for the
purpose of compiling a list. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Eco-

The City Record
nomic Development, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 9. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized will be
paid from the fund or subfunds that
are credited the proceeds of the
grants accepted under this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1063-07.
By Council Members Johnson, Pierce
Scott and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1884-98,
passed
December
14,
1998;
and
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an
amendment to Contract No. 55769
with E & L Properties, Ltd. to partially finance the construction and
renovation of real property at 9103
Buckeye Road.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1884-98, passed December 14, 1998,
this Council authorized the Director
of Economic Development to enter
into Contract No. 55769 with E & L
Properties, Ltd. to partially finance
the construction and renovation of
real property at 9103 Buckeye Road;
and
Whereas, the file contained in
Ordinance No. 1884-98, passed December 14, 1998 contained an incorrect
address of collateral property, which
was inadvertently stated correctly
in the Contract; and
Whereas, because the subject collateral property no longer applies, a
contract amendment is necessary;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. 55769 with E & L Properties, Ltd. to remove the City’s
mortgage from the property located
at 9114 Buckeye Road and replace it
with a mortgage at 16601 St. Clair
Avenue, both owned by E & L Properties, Ltd.
Section
2.
That
the
contract
amendment shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

1538

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1064-07.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4
of Ordinance No. 1138-05, passed July
13, 2005; relating to the purchase of
the Midland Steel site located at
10615 Madison Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Ordinance No.
1138-05, passed July 13, 2005, are
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a purchase
agreement
with
Midland-Madison
Properties LLC to acquire the Midland Steel site located at 10615 Madison Avenue and a purchase agreement with Norfolk Southern Railway Company to acquire a former
Railway Company spur known as
Permanent Parcel No. 005-06-001; and
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to purchase
the properties for future redevelopment.
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a purchase agreement with Midland-Madison Properties LLC for the City to acquire the
Midland Steel site located at 10615
Madison Avenue and a purchase
agreement with Norfolk Southern
Railway Company for the City to
acquire a former Railway Company
spur known as Permanent Parcel
No. 005-06-001.
Section 2. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the Midland Steel site
located at 10615 Madison Avenue
and to purchase a former railroad
spur known as Permanent Parcel
No. 005-06-001 from Norfolk Southern
Railway Company for future redevelopment.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire the properties and
to employ and pay all fees for title
companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental audits, and
all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the properties.
Section 4. That the consideration
to be paid for the properties shall
not exceed fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Ordinance No. 1138-05, passed July 13,
2005, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Effective August 10, 2007.

August 15, 2007

The City Record

119

Ord. No. 1068-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance establishing an Entertainment Overlay District on property bounded by Merwin Street, Center
Street, Fall Street and Simms Street (Map Change Number 2234, Sheet Number 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Center Street N.W. (60 feet wide) at its intersection with the centerline of Merwin Street (60 feet wide);
Thence easterly along said centerline of Center Street to its intersection with the centerline of Fall Street N.W.
(50 feet wide);
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Fall Street to its intersection with Simms Street N.W. (50 feet wide);
Thence westerly and northerly along said centerline of Simms Street to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of Sanders Place;
Thence northeasterly along said prolongation of said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Kramer Court;
Thence westerly and northerly along said centerline of Kramer Court to its intersection with the centerline of
Merwin Street;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Merwin Street to its intersection with the centerline of Center
Street and the principal place of beginning;
and shaded on the attached map and shown in File No. 1068-07-B, are hereby designated as an Entertainment
Overlay District (EO).
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2234, Sheet No. 1, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

1539

The City Record

120
Ord. No. 1081-07.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan, an Economic Development Initiative Grant
Agreement, and a UDAG Agreement
with Contract Transport Services,
Inc. to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the acquisition of real and personal
property, including construction and
renovation of real property improvements to the property located at
3223 Perkins Avenue, and other
associated costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Empowerment
Zone Section 108 loan with Contract
Transport Services, Inc. to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the acquisition of
real and personal property, including construction and renovation of
real property improvements, and
other associated costs necessary to
redevelop the property located at
3223 Perkins Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a Grant Agreement with Contract Transport Services, Inc. to receive Economic
Development Initiative Grant funds
to
partially
finance
the
above

described Improvement which are
appropriated for this purpose.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a Grant Agreement with Contract Transport Services, Inc. to receive Urban Development
Action
Grant
(“UDAG”)
funds to partially finance the above
described Improvement which are
appropriated for this purpose.
Section 4. That the terms of the
loan and grants shall be according
to the terms set forth in the Summary contained in File No. 1081-07A, made a part of this ordinance as
if fully rewritten, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this
Council at the public hearing on
this legislation, and are approved
in all respects and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 5. That the costs of the
contract shall not exceed an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan
amount of $300,000, payable from
Fund No. 18 SF 001; an Economic
Development Initiative Grant amount
of $100,000, payable from Fund No.
18 SF 003; and a UDAG amount of
$18,094, payable from Fund No. 17
SF 652, Request Nos. 103755 and
103756.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the file referenced above in
order to secure repayment of the
loan. Any loan agreement, security
instrument, or other document shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 7. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 18 SF 002.

August 15, 2007
Section 8. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 18 SF
004.
Section 9. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 10. That the contract
authorized in this legislation will
require the recipient of financial
assistance to work with The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and
solicit qualified candidates for job
opportunities related to the City’s
contracts, and place special emphasis on the hard to employ, including but not limited to the disabled
and persons who have been convicted of or have pled guilty to a
criminal offense, unless the criminal
conviction
or
circumstances
relate to the duties for the particular job sought.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1140-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting new Section 559.541 thereof, relating to prohibited hours in Public Square.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are hereby supplemented by enacting new Section 559.541 thereof, to read as follows:

Section 559.541

Prohibited Hours in Public Square

No unauthorized person shall remain on or in any portion of the area known as the Public Square area between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. Persons may be authorized to remain in Public Square by obtaining a permit
from the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Such permits shall be issued when the Director finds:
(a) That the proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere with or detract from the promotion of
public health, welfare and safety;
(b) That the proposed activity or use is not reasonably anticipated to incite violence, crime or disorderly conduct;
(c) That the proposed activity will not entail unusual, extraordinary or burdensome expense or police operation by the City;
(d) That the facilities desired have not been reserved for other use at the day and hour required in the application.

1540

The City Record

August 15, 2007

121

For purposes of this section, the “Public Square area” includes the quadrants and all structures (including but
not limited to walls, fountains, and flower planters) located within the quadrants known as Public Square and
shown on the map below, but excludes the quadrant on which sits the Soldiers and Sailors Monument; the Public Square area also excludes all dedicated streets, public sidewalks adjacent to dedicated streets and RTA bus
shelters within this area.
Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first offense, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree on the second offense, and a misdemeanor of the third degree on the third and any subsequent
offense.

Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1233-07.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to pay as Moral Claims the sums opposite the
names of the claimants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Finance is authorized to pay as Moral Claims the sums opposite the names of
the following claimants and charged against the fund:
Claimant:

Claim No.

Amount

Division

Fund

Department of Building and Housing – Board-up Division
Williams, Anita
11930
$ 3,500.00
Board-up
Mangalsingh, Telucksingh – Cost of Board-up WAIVED reconcile charges only no payment
11962
$
818.00
Board-up

1541

01-800501-672000
01-800501-672000

The City Record

122

August 15, 2007

Public Safety Department – Fire
Saul, Jack

11950

500.00

Fire

01-600302-672000

Hopkins, Donald

11955

$

500.00

Fire

01-600302-672000

Merryman, Steven R.

11961

257.69

Fire

01-600302-672000

01-600202-672000

Public Safety Department – Police
Longly, Lillian

11907

250.00

Police

Springman, Jason J.

11933

$

500.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Golston, Betty

11938

500.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Hawkins, Kerry

11941

350.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Sanders, Constance

11944

500.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Ballance, Jared C.

11954

500.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Sorian, Tony and Pasquale

11958

45.34

Police

01-600202-672000

Douglas, Andre’

11960

250.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Police Impound

01-600202-672000

Public Safety Department – Police Impound
Edwards, George

11963

McKenna, Daniel G.

Cost of Storage and Fees WAIVED reconcile charges only no payment
11966

$ 7,500.00
$

686.47

Police Impound

01-600202-672000

Department of Public Service – Motor Vehicle Maintenance
Lewis, Charmyka

11968

$

174.37

MVM

01-400501-672000

$

500.00

Streets Division

01-400601-672000

$

140.00

Street Operations

01-400601-672000

Department of Public Service – Streets Division
Young, Mania

11959

Department of Public Service – Streets Operations
Fields, Larry

11936

Department of Parks, Recreation and Property – Urban Forestry – Tree Trimming
Cole, Michelle and Jeffrey

11920

$

160.00

Tree Trimming

01-700204-672000

Department of Parks, Recreation and Property – Urban Forestry
Dalton, Dannie

11926

391.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Rakes, Bonnie

11929

$

500.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Vance, Joseph R.

11931

1,155.60

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Hannah, Betty

11934

500.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Shompert, Frank D. and Helen

11935

250.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Fairbanks, Heather

11940

500.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Merrick, Bernard

11953

129.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Loehr, Janet

11957

250.00

Urban Forestry

01-701204-672000

Vacant Lots

01-701217-672000

Department of Parks, Recreation and Property – Vacant Lots
Logan, Katherine

11943

$

64.50

Department of Public Service – Division of Waste
Hardaway, Beller

11915

15.00

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Williams, Junie M.

11921

$

322.00

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Graft, Linda

11928

10.99

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Section 2. That the authority of the Director of Finance to pay the amounts in this ordinance is conditioned
on a City-approved written acceptance by the claimant of the City’s offer to pay this claim within six months
from the effective date of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

1542

The City Record

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1256-07.
By Council Members Brady, Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 3 and 5 of
Ordinance No. 2072-05, passed February 13, 2005, relating to the public improvement of constructing the
West 121st Street extension.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 3 and 5 of Ordinance No. 202705, passed February 13, 2005, are
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the West 121st Street extension
between Sector Avenue and Berea
Road; authorizing the Director of
Public Service to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement;
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire

123

for right-of-way purposes such real
property as is necessary to make the
improvement; and authorizing the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties to enter into one or more
contracts with American Funland to
purchase personal property associated with the real property and part
of the right-of-way acquisition.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized to acquire for right-of-way purposes such real property as is necessary to make the improvement.
The consideration to be paid for the
property shall not exceed fair market value, as determined by the
Board of Control, which determination shall consider the City’s purchase of personal property associated with the real property.
Section 5. That the cost of the
improvement and real and personal
property acquisition authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 364,
20 SF 373, 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20
SF 394, 20 SF 500, and 20 SF 506,
Request No. 166617.

Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 3 and 5 of Ordinance
No. 2027-05, passed February 13,
2005, are repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 202705, passed February 13, 2005 is supplemented by adding new Section 4a
to read as follows:
Section 4a. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the acquisition of personal property associated with the
real property, in an estimated amount
of $40,000, with American Funland to
effect the right-of-way acquisition
authorized by Ordinance No. 2027-05.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1271-07.
By Council Members Zone, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to approve rates and charges for water and sewer service, and to amend Sections
535.05 and 543.02, as amended by Ordinance Nos. 778-06 and 779-06, passed June 5, 2006; relating to rates, fees, and
charges for water and water-related services and sewerage service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules, and regulations of the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for
water services, fixed by the Board of Control by Resolution No. ___________, adopted _______________, are approved.
Section 2. That Section 535.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
778-06, passed June 5, 2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 535.05 Affordability Programs
(a) Special Homestead Rate. Homesteads owned by a person sixty-five years of age or older whose total annual income does not exceed the limits listed below or homesteads owned by a person permanently and totally disabled whose total annual income does not exceed the limits listed below may be eligible for the special homestead rate established for the service district in which the homestead is located under Section 535.04 of these Codified Ordinances, provided the owner has obtained approval by their county of residence of a reduction in taxes
under the Homestead Exemption provisions of Chapter 323 of the Revised Code. The Director of Public Utilities
shall prescribe the application form for the homestead rates and have final approval of all applications.
Income Limits:
Year

Total Annual Income

2007
2008
2009
2010

$27,000
$27,800
$28,600
$29,500

(b) The Director of Public Utilities may establish an affordability program to provide assistance to eligible
low-income customers. The program may offer a reduction of twenty percent (20%) from the water bill for
residential customers who have been qualified to receive assistance through the federally funded Home Energy
Assistance Program. The Director of Public Utilities shall set the guidelines for administering the affordability
program and have final approval of all applications.
Section 3. That the rates, rules, and regulations of the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for
sewerage services, fixed by the Board of Control by Resolution No. __________, adopted ______________, are approved.
Section 4. That Section 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
779-06, passed June 5, 2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 543.02 Sewerage Service Rates Within Cleveland
(a) Regular and Homestead Rates.
Sewer Rate Schedule

Regular Rates
Homestead Rates

Minimum Charge
>1st MCF
Minimum Charge
>1st MCF

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

$8.28
$8.28
$4.91
$4.91

$10.28
$10.28
$6.10
$6.10

$11.53
$11.53
$6.84
$6.84

$12.03
$12.03
$7.13
$7.13

$12.53
$12.53
$7.43
$7.43

1543

The City Record

124

August 15, 2007

(b) Homesteads owned by a person sixty-five (65) years of age or older whose total annual income does not exceed
the limits listed below or homesteads owned by a person permanently and totally disabled whose total annual income
does not exceed the limits listed below may be eligible for the special homestead rate established under division (a)
of this section, provided the owner has obtained approval by their county of residence of a reduction in taxes under
the Homestead Exemption provisions of Chapter 323 of the Revised Code. The Director of Public Utilities shall prescribe the application form for the homestead rates and have final approval of all applications.
Income Limits:
Year
2007
2008
2009
2010

Total Annual Income
$27,000
$27,800
$28,600
$29,500

(c) The sewerage service charges within the City shall be increased to meet the funding requirements of the
Ohio Water Development Authority.
(d) Nothing contained in this section shall be held to authorize or require the payment of any sewer rental
charge by any tax-supported department of the City.
(e) All rates shall be effective on January 1 of each year.
Section 5. That Sections 535.05 and 543.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, as amended by Ordinance
Nos. 778-06 and 779-06, passed June 5, 2006, are repealed.
Section 6. That Council waives the notice requirements contained in division (b) of Section 111.072 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 7. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1272-07.
By Council Members Brady, Cummins and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to The MetroHealth System to encroach into the public right-of-way of Pearl Road with 10 banners to be attached to Cleveland Public
Power utility poles (by separate permission).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of Council,
to The MetroHealth System, 2500 Metrohealth Drive Cleveland, Ohio 44109-1998 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the
public right-of-way above Pearl Road by installing, using, and maintaining 10 banners to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power utility poles (by separate permission), at locations more fully described as follows:
LOCATION

POLE NUMBER

Pearl Road (Eastside of Street)
NE Corner Devonshire Ave.
2nd Pole N of Devonshire Ave.
3rd Pole N of Devonshire Ave.
4th Pole N of Devonshire Ave.
5th Pole N of Devonshire Ave.
1st Pole N of Altoona Road
2nd Pole N of Altoona Road
3rd Pole N of Altoona Road
4th Pole N of Altoona Road
SE Corner Devonshire Ave

#27
No Tag
#26
No Tag
#28
No Tag
#22
No Tag
#23
No Tag

POLE OWNER

CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP

Section 2. That Permittee may assign the permit only with the written consent of the Director of Public Service.
That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right, privilege, or
permission to use, or to attach or affix any object to, poles; Permittee shall obtain such permission from the
respective pole owner.
Section 3. That the encroaching structures permitted by this ordinance shall conform to plans and specifications
approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required
permits, including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall incorporate
such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The
permit shall be issued only when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, Permittee has properly indemnified the
City against any loss that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 5. That the Permit shall reserve reasonable right of entry to the City.
Section 6. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

1544

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1273-07.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 988-07,
passed July 11, 2007, relating to
leases and purchases of vehicles
and equipment necessary to implement a waste and recycling pilot
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 988-07, passed July 11,
2007, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
make at least two contracts for the
six-month lease of no more than a
total of thirty thousand carts, at
least two contracts for the sixmonth lease of various automated
trucks, and at least two contracts
for the six-month lease of a total
of twelve cart tippers, all to be
leased without competitive bidding
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis, for
the Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal, Department of Public
Service. The lessors shall be chosen by the Board of Control. The
Director of Public Service is authorized to purchase the leased carts
at the termination of the six-month
lease for a price to be determined
by the Board of Control.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 988-07, passed July
11, 2007, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1274-07.
By Council Members Brady, Zone
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance declaring a moratorium on the issuance of
sidewalk and street obstruction permits to Service Providers as specified in this ordinance.
Whereas, under Sections 411.011
and 507.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
applicants must first obtain a permit from the Director of Public Service before placing any object or
property so as to obstruct the public’s use of the Public Right-of-Way;
and
Whereas, Service Providers have
applied to the City seeking to obtain
a permit to obstruct the Public
Right-of-Way
with
their
Above
Ground Facilities; and
Whereas, this Council determines
that the unregulated proliferation of

The City Record
these Above Ground Facilities in the
Public Right-of-Way constitutes a
public nuisance that interferes with
the safe and unobstructed use of the
Public
Right-of-Way
by
traffic,
pedestrians and adjoining and abutting property owners;
Whereas, this Council further determines that this public nuisance
can be abated by the promulgation
of regulations for the placement of
Above Ground Facilities in the
Public Right-of-Way to facilitate
the needs of Service Providers
while protecting the health, safety
and welfare of the general public;
and
Whereas, this Council is considering an ordinance for the use of
the Public Right-of-Way by Service
Providers that includes obtaining a
permit for Above Ground Facilities
installations
and
regulates
the
placement of these facilities in the
Public Right-of-Way, and obviates
the need for Service Providers to
obtain obstruction permits under
Sections 411.011 and 507.06; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health, safety, or
welfare in that a moratorium on the
review of applications for and the
permitting of sidewalk and street
obstructions for Above Ground Facilities by Service Providers is necessary to enable this Council to consider reasonable regulation of the
installation of these facilities by
Service Providers and prevent unregulated proliferation of Above
Ground Facilities by Service Providers through the issuance of obstruction permits prior to either the
effective date of the City’s regulation of Above Ground Facilities or
October 1, 2007, whichever occurs
first; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, for the reasons
stated in the preamble to this ordinance, this Council declares a moratorium on review of applications
for and the issuance of obstruction
permits under Sections 411.011 and
507.06 the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the placement of Above Ground Facilities in
the Public Right-of-Way by Service
Providers for a period commencing
on the effective date of this ordinance and ending on either the
effective date of an ordinance regulating the installation of Above
Ground Facilities by Service Providers in the Public Right-of-Way
or October 1, 2007, whichever date
occurs first, provided however that
the Director of Public Service may
issue an obstruction permit upon a
showing by a Service Provider of
the existence of an emergency situation that supports the immediate
installation of Above Ground Facilities to remedy the emergency.
Section 2. That, as used in this
ordinance, the following words and
phrases shall have the following
meanings:
(a)
“Above
Ground
Facilities”
means that portion of a System
located on the surface of the Public
Right-of-Way.
(b) “Facilities” means the plant,
equipment and property, including

1545

125
but not limited to, cables, fibers,
wires, pipes, conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennae, electronics, poles,
pipes, mains, plant, equipment and
other appurtenances located in the
Public Right-of-Way and used or to
be used to operate a System to
transmit, receive, distribute, provide
or offer a Service.
(c) “Public Right-of-Way” means
the surface of, and the space within, through, on, across, above or
below, the paved or unpaved portion
of any public street, public road,
public highway, public freeway,
public lane, public path, public
alley, public court, public sidewalk,
public boulevard, public parkway,
public drive, public easement and
any other land dedicated or otherwise designated for a compatible
public use, which is controlled by
the City.
(d) “Service Provider” means any
person who directly or indirectly
owns, controls, operates or manages
Facilities within the Public Rightof-Way used or to be used for the
purpose of operating a System to
transmit, receive, distribute or provide Services.
(e) “Service” means the offering
of water, sewer, electric, gas, telephone,
telecommunications,
cable
television, video service, information
or other utility-like service for a fee
directly to the public, or to the classes of users as to be effectively available to the public, regardless of the
Facilities used.
(f) “System” means a network of
Facilities
for
the
transmission
and/or distribution of a Service.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Effective August 10, 2007.

Ord. No. 1275-07.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing to amend the title and Sections
1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 1664-05,
passed September 12, 2005, as amended by Ordinance No. 647-07, passed
May 7, 2007; to repeal Sections 4, 5,
and 6 of Ordinance No. 1664-05, as
amended; to supplement the ordinance by adding new Sections 4 and
5; and to renumber existing Section
7 to new Section 6; relating to demolition and environmental services at
the St. Michael’s Hospital site located at 5163 Broadway Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 166405, passed September 12, 2005, as

The City Record

126
amended by Ordinance No. 647-07,
passed May 7, 2007, are amended to
read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply for and accept
funding from Cuyahoga County in
the form of a loan and a grant to
partially finance demolition and
environmental services at the St.
Michael’s Hospital site, located at
5163 Broadway Avenue.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the approximate amount of
$515,000, from Cuyahoga County, to
provide financial assistance to partially finance demolition and environmental
services
at
the
St.
Michael’s site, located at 5163 Broadway Avenue; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to apply for and accept loan
assistance from Cuyahoga County in
an amount up to $700,000, to partially finance demolition and environmental
services
at
the
St.
Michael’s site, located at 5163 Broadway Avenue; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the loan, including but not
limited to, a mortgage; and that the

funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the file.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1, 2, 4, 5, and 6 of Ordinance No. 1664-05, passed September
12, 2005, as amended by Ordinance
No. 647-07, passed May 7, 2007, are
repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 166405, passed September 12, 2005, as
amended by Ordinance No. 647-07,
passed May 7, 2007, is supplemented
by adding new Sections 4 and 5 to
read as follows:
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into any contracts or
execute any documents necessary to
effect the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 5. That the contract or
contracts authorized by this ordinance shall be approved by the
Director of Law and shall contain
other provisions that the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the City.
Section 4. That Section 7 of Ordinance No. 1664-05, passed September
12, 2005, as amended by Ordinance
No. 647-07, passed May 7, 2007, is
renumbered to new “Section 6”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

August 15, 2007
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.
Ord. No. 1276-07.
By Council Members Lewis and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
approving the collective bargaining
agreement with the Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B)
of Section 4117.10 of the Revised
Code, this Council approves the collective bargaining agreement with
the Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council, under the
terms contained in File No. 1276-07A, for the period from April 1, 2007
through March 31, 2010.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1277-07.
By Council Members Lewis and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Ohio Nurses Association, Local 85;
and amending Section 23 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, relating to compensation for various
classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with Ohio Nurses Association, Local 85, under the terms contained in File No. 1277-07-A, for
the period from April 1, 2007 through March 31, 2010, and which provides, among other things, for an increase in
the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate Date of Increase*

2%

April 1, 2007

2%

April 1, 2008

2%

April 1, 2009

*Wage increases shall be effective as follows:
(a) If April 1st falls in the first week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing
at the beginning of that pay period; or
(b) If April 1st falls in the second week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing at the beginning of the next pay period.
Section 2. That Section 23 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 23. Ohio Nurses Association, Local 85. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1546

August 15, 2007
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

The City Record

127
Minimum
$20,800.00
$20,800.00
$23,146.64
$35,887.06
$39,098.75
$28,151.33
$23,647.11

Nurse II ..........................................................................................
Public Health Nurse ..................................................................
Public Health Nurse I...............................................................
Public Health Nurse II.............................................................
Public Health Nurse III ...........................................................
Public Health Nurse IV ...........................................................
Supervising Public Health Nurse .........................................

Maximum
$47,173.78
$47,173.78
$44,360.53
$45,930.52
$48,958.04
$53,428.25
$51,486.99

Section 3. That existing Section 23 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1278-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance to amend the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 832-07 passed June 11, 2007 relating
to banner permit to Slavic Village Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 832-07 passed June 11, 2007 are hereby amended to
read, respectively, as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Slavic Village
Development to encroach into the public right-of-way of Jones Road with 8 banners to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power utility poles.
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of Council,
to Slavic Village Development, 5620 Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44129 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the
public right-of-way above Jones Road by installing, using and maintaining 8 banners to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power utility poles at the locations more fully described as follows:
LOCATION

POLE NUMBER

Jones Road
Jones Road
Jones Road
Jones Road
Jones Road
Harvard Avenue (NE corner)
Dercum Avenue (west side)
Jones Road

No Tag
Sel-32
Sel-26
SE1-31
SE1-34
SE1-35
SE1-32-1
between Harvard and
Broadway Avenues

POLE OWNER
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP

Section 2. That the existing Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 832-07 passed June 11, 2007 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1279-07.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1194-04,
passed June 14, 2004 relating to
authorizing the Director of Community Development entering into a
grant agreement with Elderly Housing Development and Operations
Corporation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance 1194-04, passed June 14, 2004
is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said

contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $36,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166 and any
other funding source identified.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 1194-04, passed
June 14, 2004, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

1547

Ord. No. 1280-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement with the St. Clair-Superior
Development Corporation for the
promotion of the ArtSpace/Cleveland Live/Work Initiative through
the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development to enter into an
agreement with the St. Clair-Superior
Development Corporation for the pro-

128
motion of the ArtSpace/Cleveland
Live/Work Initiative for the public
purpose
of
promoting
residential
investment of older buildings churches and studios in the city of Cleveland through the use of Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1281-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with St. Vitus Development Corporation for the acquisition
of real property to provide housing
for senior citizens residing in the
city of Cleveland through the use of
Ward
13
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed and approved
the Home Repair Program that will
provide home repair assistance to
City of Cleveland residents, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with St. Vitus Development Corporation who will be acting as an
agent for the City of Cleveland for
the acquisition of real property
located at 1161 East 61st Street
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 for the public
purpose of providing housing to
senior citizens residing in the city
of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1282-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an agreement
with The Downtown Cleveland Alliance for the “Downtown Digs,” A
Guide to Living Downtown Cleveland Project through the use of
Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with the
Downtown Cleveland Alliance for the
“Downtown Digs,” A Guide to Living
Downtown Cleveland Project for the
public purpose of increasing residential growth opportunities for City residents
in
downtown
Cleveland
through the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $2,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1283-07.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Sky Bank Triathlon, on
August 5, 2007, sponsored by Sky
Bank and presented by Pacific Sports.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the
holding
of
the
Sky
Bank
Triathlon, sponsored by Sky Bank
and presented by Pacific Sports on
August 5, 2007, Start: Voinovich
Park; Swim Course: Northcoast Harbor area; Bike Course: Shoreway
from East 9th to West Boulevard;
Run Course: Shoreway, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall

1548

August 15, 2007
meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1284-07.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation to stretch a banner at East 152nd & Ivanhoe, for the
period from August 10, 2007 to September 9, 2007, inclusive, to announce the Wake Up Call rally at
the Collinwood Sports Complex.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue
a permit to the Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation to
stretch a banner at East 152nd &
Ivanhoe, for the period from August
10, 2007 to September 9, 2007, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

August 15, 2007
Ord. No. 1285-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the St. Clair Superior Development
Corporation to stretch banners on
East 72nd & St. Clair and East 53rd
& St. Clair, for the period from
August 8, 2007 to August 31, 2007,
inclusive, to announce the annual St.
Clair Superior Neighborhood Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue
a permit to the Glenville Festival
Committee to install, maintain and
remove banners on, East 72nd & St.
Clair and East 53rd & St. Clair, for
the period from August 8, 2007 to
August 31, 2007,inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a banner will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banner
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1286-07.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center to stretch banners across the
south side of Kinsman (E13 86 CPT
B105-355) and the north side of Kinsman (CEI 03853), for the period
from August 8, 2007 to September 7,
2007, inclusive, to announce the
Sanaa Community Flea Market.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is

The City Record
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Unity Baptist
Church to install, maintain and
remove banners across the south
side of Kinsman (E13 86 CPT B105355) and the north side of Kinsman
(CEI 03853), for the period from
August 8, 2007 to September 7, 2007,
inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banner and
said
banner
shall
be
removed
promptly upon the expiration of
said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1287-07.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement
with
Bellaire-Puritas
Development Corporation for the
Home Repair Program to provide
home repair assistance to Cleveland residents through the use of
Ward
20
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed and approved
the Home Repair Program that will
provide home repair assistance to
City of Cleveland residents, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Bellaire-Puritas Development
Corporation who will be acting as
an agent for the City of Cleveland
for the implementation of the Home
Repair Program for the public purpose of providing home repair assistance to the citizens of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $99,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

1549

129
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1288-07.
By Council Members Turner, Polensek, Kelley, Westbrook and Brady.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 100307 passed on June 11, 2007 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of
Community Development to enter
into an agreement with the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home Preservation Program
through the use of Ward(s) 1, 11, 16,
18 and 19 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1003-07 passed June 11,
2007 is hereby amended to read as
follow:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development to enter
into an agreement effective March
1, 2007 with the Cleveland Restoration Society for the Heritage Home
Preservation Program for the public purpose of promoting restoration and preservation of historic
homes in the city of Cleveland
through the use of Ward(s) 1, 11,
16, 18 and 19 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1003-07 passed June 11,
2007 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1289-07.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department
of Public Health to enter into an
agreement with the Wendy Park
Foundation for the Great Lakes
Expo through the use of Ward 17
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
the Public Health Department is
authorized to enter into an agree-

130
ment with the Wendy Park Foundation for the Great Lakes Expo
for the public purpose of providing
education to city of Cleveland residents promoting the preservation
of the Great Lakes and environmental ecology through the use of
Ward
17
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1290-07.
By Council Member Turner.
An emergency ordinance to change
the name of Miles Heights Park to
Arthur R. Johnston Playground.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of Miles
Heights Park located in Ward 1,
shall hereafter be changed to Arthur
R. Johnston Playground, and that
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties is authorized and
directed
to
take
the
necessary
action to affect said name change
and to post the proper signs.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1344-07.
By Council Member Turner.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
an agreement with the Harvard
Community Service Center for the
Youth Sports Football Recreation
Program through the use of Ward
1 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the Harvard Community
Service Center for the Youth Sports
Football Recreation Program for the
public purpose of providing organized
recreational
activities
for
youth residing in the City of Cleveland through the use of Ward 1
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $3,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1345-07.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 114507 passed July 11, 2007 as it pertains
to authorizing the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties to enter
into an agreement with the Dove
Park Panthers Youth Association
for the Youth Sports Football Recreation Program through the use of
Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1145-07 passed July 11,
2007 is hereby amended to read as
follow:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the Dove Park Panthers
Youth Association for the Youth
Sports Football Recreation Program
for the public purpose of providing
organized recreational activities for
youth residing in the City of Cleveland through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1145-07 passed July 11,
2007 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

1550

August 15, 2007
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1346-07.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 114607 passed July 11, 2007 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
enter into an agreement with the
Umoja and Kuumba Youth Association for the Youth Sports Football
Recreation Program through the
use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No.1146-07 passed July 11,
2007 is hereby amended to read as
follow:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the Umoja and Kuumba
Youth Association for the Youth
Sports Football Recreation Program
for the public purpose of providing
organized recreational activities for
youth residing in the City of Cleveland through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1146-07 passed July 11,
2007 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed August 8, 2007.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Wednesday, August 8, 2007
11:00 a.m.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee:
Present: Cimperman, Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane,
Reed, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Lewis.
11:00 a.m.
Committee of the Whole: Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Turner,
White, Reed, Johnson, Cleveland,
Britt, Lewis, Pierce Scott, Conwell,
Coats, Polensek, Brancatelli, Santiago, Cummins, Kelley, Zone, Westbrook, Brady, Keane.

The City Record

August 15, 2007

131

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Adult Entertainment
Merwin St., Center St., Fall St. & Simms St. (property bounded by) — Establish an
Entertainment Overlay District (O 1068-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1496-1539

Agreements
Downtown Cleveland Alliance, The — “Downtown Digs,” A Guide to Living
Downtown Cleveland Project — Ward 13 NEF (O 1282-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
Motivating Movement through Marathoning Program — grant — Kaiser
Permanente of Ohio — Cleveland Municipal School District — Public Health
(O 1049-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1534
St. Clair-Superior Development Corp. — ArtSpace/Cleveland Live/Work — promotion —
Ward 13 NEF (O 1280-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1470-1547
West 14th Street Bridge over I-490 — ornamental fencing — Ohio Department of
Transportation — Public Service (O 1044-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1532

Appropriations
Land and vacant, abandoned, boarded structures — strategic acquisition, redevelopment,
& rehabilitation — appropriate — Community Development Block Grant funds
(O 694-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1520
Photo-enforced traffic offenses — appropriate an amount per paid ticket — amend Ord.
176-A-05 (O 1026-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526

Baldwin Water Purification Plant
Public improvement — Baldwin Water Works — Kirtland Pump Station
(O 1235-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425

Banners
MetroHealth System — 10 banners — right-of-way of Pearl Rd. (O 1272-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1544-1544
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center — Sanaa Community Flea Market
(O 1286-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation — Wake Up Call rally at the
Collinwood Sports Complex (O 1284-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
St. Clair Superior Development Corporation — St. Clair Superior Neighborhood
Festival (O 1285-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549

Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation
Home Repair Program — grant agreement — Ward 20 NEF (O 1287-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Center Street, 2020, (Ward 13) — Pricor — appeal resolved on 8/8/07 (Doc. A-106-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
Dolloff Road, 5024, (Ward 5) — J-Set Ltd. c/o Jesse E. Adkins — appeal resolved on 8/8/07
(Doc. A-94-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
East 110th Street, 2624, (Ward 6) — Coleman Coleman c/o Specialized Loan Servicing LLC,
mortgagee — appeal adopted on 8/8/07 (Doc. A-86-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
East 152nd Street, 371, (Ward 11) — Kamp LLC—Michael Piaser, owner — appeal adopted on
8/8/07 (Doc. A-84-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
East 36th Street, 1385, (Ward 13) — Grey Stone Properties, owner — appeal adopted
on 8/8/07 (Doc. A-100-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
East 49th Street, 3393, (Ward 5) — Leonard Stys, owner — appeal adopted on 8/8/07
(Doc. A-85-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
East 9th Street, 8th Floor, 1300, (Ward 13) — CB Richard Ellis (The Penton Building) —
appeal resolved on 8/8/07 (Doc. A-109-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
Elton Avenue, 7321, (Ward 17) — Telucksingh Mangalsingh, owner — appeal adopted on 8/8/07
(Doc. A-83-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501

1551

The City Record

132

August 15, 2007

Euclid Avenue, 11625-29, (Ward 9) — DMTJ Inc. DBA Euclid Tavern — appeal resolved
on 8/8/07 (Doc. A-103-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
Hartley Road, 1032, (Ward 10) — MCM Warehouse Inc. c/o Theodore F. Lichko, owner —
appeal resolved on 8/8/07 (Doc. A-82-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
Phillips Avenue, 11711, (Ward 9) — Residential Funding Co. c/o Tim Prida — appeal
postponed to 08/22/07 on 8/8/07 (Doc. A-99-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
Sackett Avenue, 3130, (Ward 14) — Erieview Homes II Limited Partnership, owner —
appeal adopted on 8/8/07 (Doc. A-74-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1501
West 137th Street, 3709, (Ward 20) — Centrex home Equity Company, LLC, mortgagee —
appeal resolved on 8/8/07 (Doc. A-89-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
West 140th Street, 3401, (Ward 20) — Chemtura Corporation — appeal resolved on
8/8/07 (Doc. A-96-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
West 3rd Street, 1350, (Ward 13) — Robert L. Stark — appeal resolved on 8/8/07 (Doc. A-93-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500

Board of Control — Civil Service Commission
Civil Service tests development, adminstration, grade — contract per Ord. 1466-06
to MAGNET (BOC Res. 441-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Annual Reports, 2006 and 2007 — contract per Ord. 1105-06 to Creative Works, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 434-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497

Board of Control — Economic Development Department
Midland Steel property demolition and environmental remediation — approve subcontractor —
Contract #66966 per BOC Res. 292-07 (BOC Res. 440-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498

Board of Control — Finance Department
Sale of scrap. personal property, and by-products in July 2007 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 433-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Parking garage repairs — contract per Ord. 837-05, 838-05, 536-07 to Suburban Maintenance
& Construction Inc. (BOC Res. 437-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498
Parking garage repairs — contract per Ord. 837-05, 838-05, 536-07 to Envirocom
Construction Company, Inc. (BOC Res. 438-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498
Security cameras at various recreation centers — contract per Ord. 841-07 to SouthEast
Security Corporation — Division of Recreation (BOC Res. 439-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Electrical parts and equipment for airfield electical needs — contract per Ord. 191-07
to Genesis Lamp Corporation (BOC Res. 435-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497
Electrical parts and equipment for airfield electical needs — contract per Ord. 191-07
to Consolidated Electrical Distributors, Inc., d.b.a., Leader Electric Supply Co.
(BOC Res. 436-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Annual Reports, 2006 and 2007 — contract per Ord. 1105-06 to Creative Works, Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 434-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497
Civil Service tests development, adminstration, grade — contract per Ord. 1466-06
to MAGNET — Civil Service Commission (BOC Res. 441-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Midland Steel property demolition and environmental remediation — approve subcontractor —
Contract #66966 per BOC Res. 292-07 — Dept. of Economic Development
(BOC Res. 440-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498
Parking garage repairs — contract per Ord. 837-05, 838-05, 536-07 to Suburban Maintenance
& Construction Inc. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 437-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498
Parking garage repairs — contract per Ord. 837-05, 838-05, 536-07 to Envirocom
Construction Company, Inc. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 438-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498

1552

August 15, 2007

The City Record

133

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Annual Reports, 2006 and 2007 — contract per Ord. 1105-06 to Creative Works, Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 434-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap. personal property, and by-products in July 2007 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 433-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497

Board of Control — Recreation Division
Security cameras at various recreation centers — contract per Ord. 841-07 to SouthEast
Security Corporation — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 439-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Electrical parts and equipment for airfield electical needs — contract
per Ord. 191-07 to Genesis Lamp Corporation — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 435-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497
Electrical parts and equipment for airfield electical needs — contract
per Ord. 191-07 to Consolidated Electrical Distributors, Inc., d.b.a.,
Leader Electric Supply Co. — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 436-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497
Security cameras at various recreation centers — contract per Ord. 841-07 to SouthEast
Security Corporation — Division of Recreation, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (BOC Res. 439-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1498

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Clover Avenue, 2033-2107, (Ward 14) — JOS Development, Inc., owner — appeal reinstated
on 8/13/07 (Cal. 07-120) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
East 125th Street, 2041, Unit 1, (Ward 6) — Valley Ridge Contracting LLC, owner — appeal
postponed to 8/27/07 on 8/13/2007 (Cal. 07-126) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
East 125th Street, 2041, Unit 2, (Ward 6) — Valley Ridge Contracting LLC, owner — appeal
postponed to 8/27/07on 8/13/2007 (Cal. 07-127) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
East 125th Street, 2041, Unit 3, (Ward 6) — Valley Ridge Contracting LLC, owner — appeal
postponed to 8/27/07 on 8/13/2007 (Cal. 07-128) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
Edgewater Drive, 11001, (Ward 18) — George Katsikas, owner — appeal heard on 8/13/2007
(Cal. 07-136) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
Fulton Road, 2906, (Ward 14) — Caribe Development Company, owner and Luis Burgos —
appeal heard on 8/13/07 (Cal. 07-85) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
Herman Avenue, 7405, (Ward 17) — Detroit Shoreway Community Development
Organization, owner and Jeff Marks, agent — appeal granted and adopted on 8/13/07
(Cal. 07-109) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
Horace Court, 3402, (Ward 14) — Hector Cruze, owner — appeal heard on 8/13/2007
(Cal. 07-137) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
Huntmere Avenue, 15316, (Ward 11) — Raquel Wilborn, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
8/13/07 (Cal. 07-124) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
Pearl Road, 3968-3990-3979, (Ward 15) — Brookside Auto Parts, Inc. and Michael
Blake, owner — appeal denied and adopted on 8/13/07 (Cal. 07-30) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
West 130th Street, 4500, (Ward 20) — Gary Weiss aka B.M.W. Realty Company, Inc. and
Joseph Valore — appeal withdrawn on 8/13/07 (Cal. 07-71) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
West 130th Street, 4542, (Ward 20) — Gary Weiss aka B.M.W. Realty Company, Inc. and
Joseph Valore — appeal withdrawn on 8/13/07 (Cal. 07-72) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
West 17th Street, 3290, (Ward 14) — Mayann and Randolph Balog, owners — appeal granted
and adopted on 8/13/07 (Cal. 07-130). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
West 56th Street, 3247, (Ward 17) — Vitali Martiniouk and Svetland Belaia, owners —
appeal denied and adopted on 8/13/07 (Cal. 07-123). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1500
West 58th Street, 1956-1962, Unit 1, (Ward 17) — Evergreen Housing Corporation, owner —
appeal heard on 8/13/2007 (Cal. 07-131) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
West 58th Street, 1956-1962, Unit 2, (Ward 17) — Evergreen Housing Corporation, owner —
appeal heard on 8/13/2007 (Cal. 07-132) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499

1553

The City Record

134

August 15, 2007

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Buhrer Avenue, 1600, (Ward 14) — The Clevleland Metropolitan School District, owner and
Gregory Goss, agent, 8/27/2007 (Cal. 07-143). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
East 147th Street, 3858, (Ward 3) — Nita Hill, owner 8/27/2007
(Cal. 07-147) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
East 55th Street, 2331, (Ward 5) — James Majors, owner 8/27/2007
(Cal. 07-144) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
Pearl road, 5100, (Ward 16) — The Alex Solomon Limited Famliy Trust, owner, and
David Lynch, their attorney 8/27/2007 (Cal. 07-146) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
State Road, 4365, (Ward 16) — Patricia Harris, owner 8/27/2007 (Cal. 07-149). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
West 130th Street, 4343-49, (Ward 19) — Broken Wheel Auto Parts and Wrecking, owner
8/27/2007 (Cal. 07-142) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499
West 58th Street, 1956-1962, Unit 3, (Ward 17) — Evergreen Housing Corporation, owner —
appeal to be heard on 8/13/2007 (Cal. 07-133) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
West 90th Street, 3282, (Ward 18) — Kathryn Fox, owner 8/27/2007
(Cal. 07-161) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1499

Bridges
Replacement gate for movable bridges — purchase — Division of
Engineering and Construction (O 1046-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1533
West 14th Street Bridge over I-490 — ornamental fencing —
Ohio Department of Transportation — agreement — Public Service
(O 1044-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1532

Building and Housing Department
County Delinquent Tax and Assessment Collection Fund Grant Program —
grant — Board of County Commissioners of Cuyahoga County
(O 1263-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1459

Burke Lakefront Airport
Next Generation Air Traffic System — Sensis Corporation — license agreement — equipment
to conduct research — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront
Airport (O 1240-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426

City Council
Keane, Martin J. — oath of office — Council Member, Ward 21. (F 1357-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423

City of Cleveland Bids
Janitorial maintenance — Department of Port Control — per Ord. 192-07 —
bid due September 7, 2007 (advertised 8/15/2007 and 8/22/2007). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1502
Painting and paint removal on roadways, runways and paved surfaces —
Department of Port Control — per Ord. 986-07 — bid due August 29, 2007
(advertised 8/8/2007 and 8/15/2007). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1502
Pumps, pipe saws, chain saws, tampers, sharpeners — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per Ord. 1255-06 — bid due August 31, 2007
(advertised 8/8/2007 and 8/15/2007). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1502

City Planning Commission
Appeals from decisions of the City Planning Commission. — new Sec. 329.021
(O 1265-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1460
E. 152nd St. & Ivanhoe Rd. (lands between) & south of St. Clair Ave. — change the
Use Districts — Local Retail Business District (O 1267-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1462
Lorain Rd. south (between W. 80th St. & W. 73rd St.) — Change the Use Districts — Local
Retail Business District (O 1268-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1463
Merwin St., Center St., Fall St. & Simms St. (property bounded by) — Establish an
Entertainment Overlay District (O 1068-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1496-1539
Miles Ave. (between E. 167th St & City boundary) — Change the Use Districts — RA-2
Townhouse & Residence Industry (O 1266-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1460
Transportation for Livable Communities Grant Program — grants — Northeast Ohio Area
Coordinating Agency — City Planning Commission (O 1264-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1459

1554

August 15, 2007

The City Record

135

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Airfield signage, lighting, and marking plans — provide drawings — professional services
(O 1239-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426
Continental Airlines — Department of Homeland Security’s Transportation
Security Administration — Memorandums of Agreement — automated, in-line checked
baggage screening system (O 1041-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1531
Next Generation Air Traffic System — Sensis Corporation — license agreement — equipment
to conduct research — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront
Airport (O 1240-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426
Surface Systems, Inc. — contracts — surface sensor system — upgrade
(O 1238-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426

Cleveland Municipal Court
Photo-enforced traffic offenses — appropriate an amount per paid ticket — amend Ord.
176-A-05 (O 1026-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526

Cleveland Municipal School District
Motivating Movement through Marathoning Program — grant — Kaiser Permanente of Ohio —
agreement — Public Health (O 1049-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1534

Cleveland Public Power
Customer-owned distributed generation — PURPA — distribution system
(R 1291-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474-1502
Duct line, street lighting bases & pull boxes — purchase (O 895-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1525
KUBRA Data Transfer Ltd. — contracts — on-line bill paying and electronic bill viewing
capabilities (O 893-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1524
Test equipment — maintenance (O 896-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1525
Utility poles — test, remove, and replace (O 897-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1525

Codified Ordinances
Appeals from decisions of the City Planning Commission. — new Sec. 329.021
(O 1265-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1460
Authorization to purchase software updates, licenses, maintenance and technical support —
new Sec. 181.102 (O 1034-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1528
Collect unpaid judgments, costs, tickets for photo-enforced red light and speeding offenses
& parking infraction judgements — professional services — new Sects. 149.11 &
413.032 (O 1029-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1527
Emergency purchases and contracts — amend Sec. 181.12 (O 1031-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1527
Engine compression or “jake” braking systems — new Sec. 605.121
(O 1254-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1447
Explosives and hazardous material transportation — repeal Sects. 387.01 to 387.15 & 387.99
& Sects. 394.01 to 394.16 & 394.99 — new Sects. 387.01 to 387.18 & 387.99 & Sects.
394.01 to 394.15 & 394.99 (O 1253-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
Prohibited hours in Public Square — new Section 559.541 (O 1140-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1540
Public right-of-way by service providers — new Sections 510.01 to 510.08 and 510.99 —
Public street pavement preservation — new Section 503.013 (O 1242-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427
Purchases not exceeding $10,000 — amend Sec. 181.08 (O 1030-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1527
Rates, fees, & charges for water — water-related services & sewerage service — amend Sects.
535.05 & 543.02 (O 1271-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1466-1543
Recognition of electronic records and signatures — new Sec. 181.103 (O 1032-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1528

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council (O 1276-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1469-1546
Ohio Nurses Association, Local 85 — amend Sec. 23. of Ord. No. 289-06
(O 1277-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1469-1546

Communications
Mary Taylor, CPA, Auditor of State — Report on Audits of Financial Statements —
various City Divisions (F 1348-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
National City Bank — Account Statement — Leonard Channa Jr. Fund —
The Cleveland Mall Plaza Beautification Fund (F 1347-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423

1555

The City Record

136

August 15, 2007

Community Development
Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation — grant agreement — Home Repair Program —
Ward 20 NEF (O 1287-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
Beulah Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Forest Hill Congregation of Jehovahs Witnesses
(O 1262-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1458
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — amend Ord. 1288-07 —
Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 NEF (O 1288-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
East 77th, Eat 79th, Quincy Ave. — Land reutilization Program — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation (O 795-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1521
Elderly Housing Development & Operations Corporation — grant agreement — amend Ord. 1194-04
(O 1279-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1470-1547
Lake Ave., 11623 & W. 116th St., 1227 — sell City-owned property — Marous Development LLC —
Option to Purchase Agreement — Community Development and Parks, Recreation
and Properties (O 1259-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1457
Land and vacant, abandoned, boarded structures — strategic acquisition, redevelopment,
& rehabilitation — appropriate — Community Development Block Grant funds
(O 694-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1520
Nolasco Housing Corporation — contract — Community Development Block Grant Float Loan —
1215-1249 W. 70th St. (O 1261-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1458
St. Clair-Superior Development Corp. — ArtSpace/Cleveland Live/Work — promotion —
agreement — Ward 13 NEF (O 1280-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1470-1547
St. Michael’s Hospital — 5163 Broadway Ave. — demolition and environmental services —
amend Ord. 1664-05 (O 1275-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1468-1545
St. Vitus Development Corporation — grant agreement — housing for senior citizens —
Ward 13 NEF (O 1281-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
Upper Chester District Master Plan — 1906 E. 101st St. — purchase property (O 1260-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1457
W. 28th St. (east side) — sell City-owned property — PPN 003-38-049 —
Great Lakes Brewing Company (O 1061-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1537

Community Development Block Grant Program
Land and vacant, abandoned, boarded structures — strategic acquisition, redevelopment,
& rehabilitation — appropriate — Community Development Block Grant funds
(O 694-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1520
Nolasco Housing Corporation — contract — Community Development Block Grant Float Loan —
1215-1249 W. 70th St. (O 1261-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1458

Community Relations Board
Key, Annie L. — oath of office — Member (F 1361-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Muhammad, Roland — oath of office — Member (F 1360-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Condolences
Ayers Griffin, James Anthony (R 1371-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Cantrell, Vivian (R 1367-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Cooper, Gladys (R 1373-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Gibson, Leroy (R 1379-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Hunter, Sr., Deacon Jonas Lewis (R 1378-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Johnson, Charles E. (R 1372-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Kelley, Sr. Rev. Dr. Earnest (R 1369-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Lamberson, Hattie Mae (R 1374-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Mixson, Marvin G. (R 1377-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Parker, Sr., Bernard Douglas (R 1375-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Robinson, Jean (R 1376-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Stiggers, Stevie Lee (R 1380-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Wells, Sr., Paul M. (R 1368-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Witt Johnson, Marjorie (R 1370-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Congratulations
Calabrese, Carol Frances (R 1382-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Curry, Vera (R 1384-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Emmau-El A.M.E. Zion Church (R 1385-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Tonne, Sgt. Tammy T. (R 1383-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
United Parcel Service — 100th Anniversary (R 1381-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
White, III, Rev. Ogden (“Ogie”) (R 1386-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Yuhas, Richard & Mary Jane (R 1387-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

1556

August 15, 2007

The City Record

137

Contracts
Airline Incentive Program — establish — Port Control (O 1042-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1532
AVL System — maintenance — Radio Satellite Integrators — Division of Emergency Medical
Service (O 1248-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Buckeye Rd., 9103 — construction & renovation — E & L Properties, Ltd. — Contract No.
55769 — amendment — amend Ord. 1884-98 (O 1063-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1538
COPS Secure Our Schools Program 2007 — grant — United States Department of Justice —
Foremost Safety Solutions, Inc. (O 1252-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
Cuyahoga County Public Health Collaborative Program — grant — Cuyahoga County Board of
Health — contracts with Executive Information Systems LLC (O 1047-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1533
Era Systems Corporation — amendments to Contract No. 66178 — noise monitoring system
software upgrades (O 1241-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427
Financial Information System — software licenses — operation — Cognos Corporation —
Public Utilities (O 823-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
iTRACS — new and upgraded software — amend Ord. 2077-06 (O 1040-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1531
KUBRA Data Transfer Ltd. — on-line bill paying and electronic bill viewing capabilities —
Cleveland Public Power (O 893-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1524
Meter reading, collections, investigations and meter maintenance systems — hardware
and software-support based — Datamatic, Ltd. — Division of Water
(O 1039-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1531
Nolasco Housing Corporation — Community Development Block Grant Float Loan —
1215-1249 W. 70th St. (O 1261-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1458
Scanner hardware — support and maintain — OnBase Document Management System —
CASNET — Public Utilities (O 1038-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1530
Summer tennis program for 2007 & 2008 — National Junior Tennis League of Cleveland, Inc. —
Parks, Recreation and Properties (O 1059-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1537
Ventyx Customer Suite, Service Suite and Asset Suite software — Ventyx —
professional services — Public Utilities (O 984-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526

Convention Center
County sales tax — raise — Medical Mart & convention center — County Commissioner —
Council’s Support (R 1366-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1490-1519

County Commissioners
County Delinquent Tax and Assessment Collection Fund Grant Program — grant — Board
of County Commissioners of Cuyahoga County — Building and Housing
(O 1263-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1459
County sales tax — raise — Medical Mart & convention center — County Commissioner —
Council’s Support (R 1366-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1490-1519
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant 2007 — grant — purchase one patrol boat —
memorandum of understanding — cities of Lakewood, Euclid, Garfield Heights, Parma
(O 1249-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436

Criminal Justice Services
Team Approach to Domestic Violence program (Prosecution) 2007 — grant — amend Ord. 1834-06
(O 1028-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526

Curfew
Prohibited hours in Public Square — new Section 559.541 (O 1140-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1540

Cuyahoga County
MomsFirst and Invest in Children Partnership Program — grant — Public Health
(O 1051-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1535
Paul Coverdell Forensic Science Improvement Program 2007 — grant — purchase — one
gas chromatograph and mass spectrometer (O 1251-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
St. Michael’s Hospital — 5163 Broadway Ave. — demolition and environmental services —
amend Ord. 1664-05 (O 1275-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1468-1545

Deeds
Forest Hills Parkway area — deed of easement — Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer
District (O 1257-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1447

1557

The City Record

138

August 15, 2007

Economic Development Department
Buckeye Rd., 9103 — construction & renovation — E & L Properties, Ltd. — Contract No.
55769 — amendment — amend Ord. 1884-98 (O 1063-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1538
Downtown Cleveland Alliance, The — agreement — “Downtown Digs,” A Guide to Living
Downtown Cleveland Project — Ward 13 NEF (O 1282-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
Environmental assessments on brownfield sites — Brownfields Assessments grants —
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (O 1062-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1537
Midland Steel site — 10615 Madison Ave. — purchase — amend Ord. 1138-05 (O 1064-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1538
Perkins Ave., 3223 — property improvements — Contract Transport Services, Inc. —
Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan, Economic Development Initiative Grant Agreement
& UDAG Agreement (O 1081-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1540

Emergency Medical Service Division
AVL System — maintenance — Radio Satellite Integrators (O 1248-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436

Emergency Purchases
Emergency purchases and contracts — amend Sec. 181.12 (O 1031-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1527

Empowerment Zone
Perkins Ave., 3223 — property improvements — Contract Transport Services, Inc. —
Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan, Economic Development Initiative Grant Agreement
& UDAG Agreement (O 1081-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1540

Engineering and Construction Division
Replacement gate for movable bridges — purchase (O 1046-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1533

Environmental Protection Agency
Environmental assessments on brownfield sites — Brownfields Assessments grants
(O 1062-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1537

Fees
Rates, fees, & charges for water — water-related services & sewerage service — amend Sects.
535.05 & 543.02 (O 1271-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1466-1543
Video Service Provider Fees — paid by — provider offering video service (O 1234-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Finance Department
Long distance telephone service — all City voice and fax lines — purchase — Division of
Information Technology and Services (O 1035-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1529
Moral Claims — pay (O 1233-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1464-1541
Team Approach to Domestic Violence program (Prosecution) 2007 — grant — Criminal Justice
Service Agency — amend Ord. 1834-06 (O 1028-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526

Flats District
Merwin St., Center St., Fall St. & Simms St. (property bounded by) — Establish an
Entertainment Overlay District (O 1068-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1496-1539

Grants
ASIST Cleveland 2010 Program — U. S. Department of Health and Human Services
(O 1245-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Buffer Zone Protection Program 2006 — Ohio Department of Public Safety — memoranda
of understanding — The Clorox Company (O 1250-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Cities Readiness Initiative Program — Ohio Department of Health — Public Health
(O 1053-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1535
COPS Secure Our Schools Program 2007 — United States Department of Justice —
Foremost Safety Solutions, Inc. — contracts (O 1252-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
County Delinquent Tax and Assessment Collection Fund Grant Program — Board of County
Commissioners of Cuyahoga County — Building and Housing (O 1263-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1459
Cuyahoga County Public Health Collaborative Program — Cuyahoga County Board of Health —
contracts with Executive Information Systems LLC (O 1047-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1533

1558

August 15, 2007

The City Record

139

Environmental assessments on brownfield sites — Brownfields Assessments grants —
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (O 1062-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1537
Get It? Social Marketing and Health Promotion Program — Ohio Department of Health —
Public Health (O 1050-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1534
Health Promotion through Health Literacy Program — Sisters of Charity Foundation
(O 1247-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Hepatitis Outreach and Vaccination Program — Roche, aka F. Hoffman-Laroche Ltd.
(O 1246-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Integrated Health Initiative Program — Cleveland Foundation & Woodruff Foundation —
Public Health (O 1052-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1535
MomsFirst and Invest in Children Partnership Program — Cuyahoga County —
Public Health (O 1051-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1535
Motivating Movement through Marathoning Program — Kaiser Permanente of Ohio —
agreement — Cleveland Municipal School District — Public Health
(O 1049-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1534
Paul Coverdell Forensic Science Improvement Program 2007 — Cuyahoga County — purchase —
one gas chromatograph and mass spectrometer (O 1251-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
Safe Routes 2 School Injury Prevention Program — State and Territorial Injury Prevention
Director’s Association — Public Health (O 1054-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1536
Team Approach to Domestic Violence program (Prosecution) 2007 — Criminal Justice Service
Agency — amend Ord. 1834-06 (O 1028-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526
Transportation for Livable Communities Grant Program — Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency — City Planning Commission (O 1264-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1459
United Science Progress Program — U.S. Conference of Mayors and DuPont — Public Health
(O 1048-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497

Hazardous Chemicals
Explosives and hazardous material transportation — repeal Sects. 387.01 to 387.15 & 387.99
& Sects. 394.01 to 394.16 & 394.99 — new Sects. 387.01 to 387.18 & 387.99 & Sects.
394.01 to 394.15 & 394.99 (O 1253-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438

Health Department
ASIST Cleveland 2010 Program — grant — U. S. Department of Health and Human Services
(O 1245-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Cities Readiness Initiative Program — grant — Ohio Department of Health (O 1053-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1535
Cuyahoga County Public Health Collaborative Program — grant — Cuyahoga County Board of
Health — contracts with Executive Information Systems LLC (O 1047-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1533
Get It? Social Marketing and Health Promotion Program — grant — Ohio Department of Health
(O 1050-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1534
Health Promotion through Health Literacy Program — grant — Sisters of Charity Foundation
(O 1247-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Hepatitis Outreach and Vaccination Program — grant — Roche, aka F. Hoffman-Laroche Ltd.
(O 1246-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Integrated Health Initiative Program — grants — Cleveland Foundation & Woodruff Foundation
(O 1052-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1535
MomsFirst and Invest in Children Partnership Program — grant — Cuyahoga County
(O 1051-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1535
Motivating Movement through Marathoning Program — grant — Kaiser Permanente of Ohio —
agreement — Cleveland Municipal School District (O 1049-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1534
Safe Routes 2 School Injury Prevention Program — grant — State and Territorial
Injury Prevention Director’s Association (O 1054-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1536
United Science Progress Program — grant — U.S. Conference of Mayors and DuPont
(O 1048-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497
Wendy Park Foundation — agreement — Great Lakes Expo — Ward 17 NEF
(O 1289-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1549

House Bill
Fuel efficiency standards — raise to 35 miles per gallon — House Bill 1506 — Council’s
support (R 1292-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474-1503

Information System Services Division
Long distance telephone service — all City voice and fax lines — purchase (O 1035-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1529

1559

The City Record

140

August 15, 2007

Land Reutilization Program
Beulah Ave. — Forest Hill Congregation of Jehovahs Witnesses (O 1262-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1458
East 77th, Eat 79th, Quincy Ave. — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation
(O 795-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1521

Leases
Waste and recycling pilot program — vehicles — leases & purchases — amend Ord.
988-07 (O 1273-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1468-1545

Liquor Permits
Broadview Rd., 2011 — objection (Ward 15) (R 1324-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484-1513
Broadway Ave., 4643 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1319-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482-1511
Cedar Ave., 2747 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1314-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1481-1509
Central Ave., 3337 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1316-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1481-1510
Central Ave., 4621 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1318-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482-1511
Central Ave., 7109 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1311-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1480-1508
Clark Ave., 4105 — objection (Ward 14) (R 1336-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1488-1516
Clark Ave., 4322 — objection (Ward 14) (R 1339-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1489-1517
Clark Ave., 4322 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 1352-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Clark Ave., 5110 — objection (Ward 14) (R 1340-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1489-1518
Clifton Blvd., 11521 — new (Ward 18) (F 1350-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Community College Ave., 3609 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1317-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482-1510
Croton Ave., 3403 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1312-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1480-1509
Detroit Ave., 5901 — objection (Ward 17) (R 1342-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1490-1518
Dolloff Rd., 5346 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1322-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-1512
E. 143rd St., 4480 — objection (Ward 1) (R 1341-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1489-1518
E. 200th St., 788 — objection — withdraw (Ward 11) (R 1332-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1486-1515
E. 25th St., 3876 — transfer (Ward 12) (F 1354-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
E. 49th St., 3291 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1315-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1481-1510
E. 65th St., 3367 — objection (Ward 12) (R 1296-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1475-1504
E. 65th St., 3614 — objection (Ward 12) (R 1295-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1475-1504
E. 65th St., 3850 — objection (Ward 12) (R 1298-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1476-1505
E. 71st St., 3795 — objection (Ward 12) (R 1294-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1475-1503
E. 71st St., 4136 — objection (Ward 12) (R 1297-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1476-1504
E. 71st St., 4257 — objection (Ward 12) (R 1300-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477-1505
E.135th St., 3218 — objection (Ward 4) (R 1329-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1486-1514
Fleet Ave., 5212 — objection (Ward 12) (R 1301-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477-1505
Fleet Ave., 5407 — objection (Ward 12) (R 1302-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477-1506
Fleet Ave., 5421 — objection (Ward 12) (R 1304-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478-1506
Fulton Rd., 4262 — objection (Ward 15) (R 1326-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485-1513
Harvard Ave., 7020 — objection (Ward 12) (R 1299-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1476-1505
Kinsman Rd., 14301 — objection (Ward 4) (R 1328-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485-1514
Kinsman Rd., 7515 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1321-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-1512
Lee Rd., 4102-4104 — transfer ( Ward 1) (F 1355-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Lee Rd., 4501-03-05 — transfer (Ward 1) (F 1356-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Lorain Ave., 10330 — objection — withdraw (Ward 19) (R 1293-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474-1503
Memphis Ave., 5200 — objection (Ward 15) (R 1325-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484-1513
Old River Rd., 1204 — objection — withdraw (Ward 13) (R 1307-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479-1507
Outwaite Ave., 5803 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1313-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1480-1509
Pearl Rd., 4256 — objection (Ward 15) (R 1327-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485-1514
Pershing Ave., 4818 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1320-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-1511
Prospect Ave., 618 — objection (Ward 13) (R 1306-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478-1507
Ridge Rd., 3837 — objection (Ward 16) (R 1330-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1486-1515
Spring Rd., 1503 — objection (Ward 15) (R 1323-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484-1512
St. Clair Ave., 15518 — objection (Ward 11) (R 1343-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1490-1519
St. Clair Ave., 3040-48 — objection (Ward 13) (R 1308-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479-1507
St. Clair Ave., 6524 — objection (Ward 13) (R 1310-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479-1508
St. Clair Ave., 6702 — objection (Ward 13) (R 1309-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479-1508
St. Clair Ave., 6702 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 1353-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Steelyard Dr., 3400 — new (Ward 13) (F 1349-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Storer Ave., 4701 — objection (Ward 14) (R 1337-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1488-1517
Storer Ave., 5004 — objection (Ward 14) (R 1338-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1488-1517

1560

August 15, 2007

The City Record

141

Superior Ave., 8802 — objection — withdraw (Wad 7) (R 1331-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1486-1515
Turney Rd., 4595 — new (Ward 2) (F 1351-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Union Ave., 7018 — objection (Ward 12) (R 1303-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477-1506
W. 25th St., 3203 — objection (Ward 14) (R 1333-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1487-1515
W. 44th St., 3353 — objection (Ward 14) (R 1334-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1487-1516
W. 46th St., 3355 — objection (Ward 14) (R 1335-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1487-1516
W. 9th St., 1299 — objection — withdraw (Ward 13) (R 1305-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478-1507

Loans
Loan modifications to mortgage borrowers — urge area banks and lenders — encouraging the
Jackson Administration (R 1173-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497-1502

Memoranda of Understanding
Buffer Zone Protection Program 2006 — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety — The Clorox
Company (O 1250-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant 2007 — grant — purchase one patrol boat —
cities of Lakewood, Euclid, Garfield Heights, Parma — Board of Cuyahoga
County Commissioners (O 1249-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436

Metro Health Medical Center
Pearl Rd. — right-of-way — 10 banners (O 1272-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1544-1544

Moral Claims
Moral Claims — pay (O 1233-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1464-1541

Mortgages
Loan modifications to mortgage borrowers — urge area banks and lenders — encouraging the
Jackson Administration (R 1173-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497-1502

National Jr. Tennis League of Cleveland
Summer tennis program for 2007 & 2008 — contracts — Parks, Recreation and Properties
(O 1059-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1537

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Harvard Community Service Center — agreement — Youth Sports Football Recreation Program —
Ward 1 (O 1344-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1550
Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation — grant agreement — Home Repair Program —
Ward 20 NEF (O 1287-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — amend Ord. 1288-07 —
Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 (O 1288-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
Dove Park Panthers Youth Association — agreement — Youth Sports
Football Recreation Program — amend Ord. 1145-07 — Ward 2
(O 1345-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1550
Downtown Cleveland Alliance, The — agreement — “Downtown Digs,” A Guide to
Living Downtown Cleveland Project — Ward 13 (O 1282-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
Elderly Housing Development & Operations Corporation — grant agreement — Community
Development — amend Ord. 1194-04 (O 1279-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1470-1547
St. Vitus Development Corporation — grant agreement — housing for senior citizens —
Ward 13 (O 1281-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
Umoja and Kuumba Youth Association — agreement — Youth Sports
Football Recreation Program — Ward 2 (O 1346-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1550
Wendy Park Foundation — agreement — Great Lakes Expo — Ward 17
(O 1289-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1549

Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (NOACA
Transportation for Livable Communities Grant Program — grants — City Planning Commission
(O 1264-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1459

1561

The City Record

142

August 15, 2007

Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
Forest Hills Parkway area — deed of easement (O 1257-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1447

Oath of Office
Keane, Martin J. — Council Member, Ward 21. (F 1357-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Key, Annie L. — Member of the Community Relations Board (F 1361-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Muhammad, Roland — Member of the Community Relations Board (F 1360-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
O’Neill, Joellenn C. — Commander Bureau of Human Resources Division of Police (F 1359-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Sulzer, Keith G. — Commander Second District Division of Police (F 1358-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423

Ohio Department of Public Health
Cities Readiness Initiative Program — grant — Public Health (O 1053-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1535

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
West 14th Street Bridge over I-490 — ornamental fencing — agreement — Public Service
(O 1044-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1532

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Collinwood Track and Field Facility — environmental clean-up — Operation and Maintenance
Plan — environmental Declaration of Covenants and Restrictions (O 1258-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1456

Parking Facilities Division
Electronic parking meters — purchase (O 1060-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1537

Parking Violations Bureau
Photo-enforced traffic offenses — appropriate an amount per paid ticket — amend Ord.
176-A-05 (O 1026-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526

Parks
Miles Heights Park to Arthur R. Johnston Playground — change the name (O 1290-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1550

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Harvard Community Service Center — agreement — Youth Sports
Football Recreation Program — Ward 1 NEF (O 1344-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1550
Collinwood Track and Field Facility — environmental clean-up — Operation and Maintenance
Plan — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency — environmental Declaration of Covenants
and Restrictions (O 1258-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1456
Dove Park Panthers Youth Association — agreement — Youth Sports
Football Recreation Program — amend Ord. 1145-07 — Ward 2 NEF (O 1345-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1550
Electronic parking meters — purchase — Division of Parking Facilities (O 1060-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1537
Impett Park Site Improvements — Contract No. 64934 (F 1362-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Lake Ave., 11623 & W. 116th St., 1227 — sell City-owned property — Marous Development LLC —
Option to Purchase Agreement — Community Development and Parks, Recreation
and Properties (O 1259-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1457
Miles Heights Park to Arthur R. Johnston Playground — change the name (O 1290-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1550
Morgana Athletic Complex construction — cash donations — public and private entities
(O 1057-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1536
Summer tennis program for 2007 & 2008 — contracts — National Junior Tennis League
of Cleveland, Inc. (O 1059-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1537
Umoja and Kuumba Youth Association — agreement — Youth Sports
Football Recreation Program — Ward 2 NEF (O 1346-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1550
W. 121st St. extension — public improvement — amend Ord. No. 2072-05 (O 1256-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1466-1543
Zelma Watson George Recreation Center — roller skating rink — managerial services for the
daily operations (O 1255-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1447

Permits
Sky Bank Triathlon — Sky Bank and presented by Pacific Sports (O 1283-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548

1562

August 15, 2007

The City Record

143

Personnel Department
Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council — collective bargaining agreement
(O 1276-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1469-1546
Ohio Nurses Association, Local 85 — collective bargaining agreement — amend Sec. 23. of
Ord. No. 289-06 (O 1277-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1469-1546

Plats
Wadepark Townhouses — Residential Townhouse Development — amending Plat No. 2110-06 —
(Ward 9) (F 1365-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Police Division
O’Neill, Joellen C. — oath of office — Commander Bureau of Human Resources (F 1359-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Sulzer, Keith G. — oath of office — Commander Second District (F 1358-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423

Port Control Department
Airfield signage, lighting, and marking plans — provide drawings — professional services —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1239-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426
Airline Incentive Program — establish — Port Control (O 1042-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1532
Continental Airlines — Department of Homeland Security’s Transportation
Security Administration — Memorandums of Agreement — automated, in-line checked
baggage screening system — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1041-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1531
Era Systems Corporation — amendments to Contract No. 66178 — noise monitoring system
software upgrades (O 1241-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427
Next Generation Air Traffic System — Sensis Corporation — license agreement — equipment
to conduct research — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront
Airport (O 1240-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426
Surface Systems, Inc. — contracts — surface sensor system — upgrade — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 1238-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426

Professional Services
Airfield signage, lighting, and marking plans — provide drawings — professional services —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1239-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426
Collect unpaid judgments, costs, tickets for photo-enforced red light and speeding offenses
& parking infraction judgements — new Sects. 149.11 & 413.032 (O 1029-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1527
Customer Information System/Customer Relations Management System — Phases 3 & 4 —
professional services & leases — telecommunications and network lines — Public
Utilities (O 1036-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1529
Cuyahoga County Public Health Collaborative Program — grant — Cuyahoga County Board of
Health — contracts with Executive Information Systems LLC (O 1047-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1533
Information technology services — professional consultants (O 1954-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1520
iTRACS — contracts — new and upgraded software — amend Ord. 2077-06
(O 1040-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1531
Meter reading, collections, investigations and meter maintenance systems — hardware and
software-support based — Datamatic, Ltd. — Division of Water (O 1039-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1531
Scanner hardware — support and maintain — OnBase Document Management System — CASNET —
contracts — Public Utilities (O 1038-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1530
United Science Progress Program — grant — U.S. Conference of Mayors and DuPont — Public
Health (O 1048-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497
Ventyx Customer Suite, Service Suite and Asset Suite software — contracts — Ventyx — Public
Utilities (O 984-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526
Water and sewer bills, bill inserts — professional consultants — design, print, format,
and distribute — Public Utilities (O 1037-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1530

Public Improvements
Alger Road area sewer system — include installing manholes and catch basins (O 827-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
East 177th Street area sewer system — include installing manholes and catch basins (O 829-07) . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
West 127th Street area sewer system — include installing manholes and catch basins (O 831-07) . . . . . . . . . 1492-1524

Public Square
Prohibited hours in Public Square — new Section 559.541 (O 1140-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1540

1563

The City Record

144

August 15, 2007

Purchases and Supplies Division
Champion Ave. & W. 100th St. (southwest corner) — sell City-owned property — Mary K. Pikus
(O 1043-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1532
Emergency purchases and contracts — amend Sec. 181.12 (O 1031-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1527
Lake Ave., 11623 & W. 116th St., 1227 — sell City-owned property — Marous Development LLC —
Option to Purchase Agreement — Community Development and Parks, Recreation
and Properties (O 1259-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1457
Midland Steel site — 10615 Madison Ave. — purchase — amend Ord. 1138-05
(O 1064-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1538
Purchases not exceeding $10,000 — amend Sec. 181.08 (O 1030-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1527
Upper Chester District Master Plan — 1906 E. 101st St. — purchase property — Department
of Community Development (O 1260-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1457
W. 28th St. (east side) — sell City-owned property — PPN 003-38-049 — Great Lakes Brewing
Company (O 1061-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1537

Recognition
Bess, Michael I. (R 1392-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Brown, Denoris (R 1393-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Cleveland Food Week / Fabulous Food Show (R 1391-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Cleveland, City of — 211th birthday (R 1389-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Liberian Association of Cleveland (R 1394-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
National Night Out Against Crime — 24th Annual (R 1390-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Swann, Lynn (R 1388-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
West Tech Alumni Association (R 1395-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Reports
Mary Taylor, CPA, Auditor of State — Report on Audits of Financial Statements — various
City Divisions (F 1348-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
County sales tax — raise — Medical Mart & convention center — County Commissioner —
Council’s Support (R 1366-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1490-1519
Customer-owned distributed generation — PURPA — Division of Cleveland Public Power’s
distribution system (R 1291-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474-1502
Fuel efficiency standards — raise to 35 miles per gallon — House Bill 1506 — Council’s
support (R 1292-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474-1503
Loan modifications to mortgage borrowers — urge area banks and lenders — encouraging the
Jackson Administration (R 1173-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497-1502

Right-of-Way
MetroHealth System — 10 banners — right-of-way of Pearl Rd. (O 1272-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1544-1544
Public right-of-way by service providers — new Sections 510.01 to 510.08 and 510.99 —
Public street pavement preservation — new Section 503.013 (O 1242-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427

Safety Department
AVL System — maintenance — Radio Satellite Integrators — Division of Emergency Medical
Service (O 1248-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Buffer Zone Protection Program 2006 — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety — memoranda
of understanding — The Clorox Company (O 1250-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
COPS Secure Our Schools Program 2007 — grant — United States Department of Justice —
Foremost Safety Solutions, Inc. — contracts (O 1252-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant 2007 — grant — purchase one patrol boat —
memorandum of understanding — cities of Lakewood, Euclid, Garfield Heights, Parma —
Board of Cuyahoga County Commissioners (O 1249-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Paul Coverdell Forensic Science Improvement Program 2007 — grant — Cuyahoga
County — purchase — one gas chromatograph and mass spectrometer
(O 1251-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438

Salaries
Ohio Nurses Association, Local 85 — collective bargaining agreement — amend Sec. 23. of
Ord. No. 289-06 (O 1277-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1469-1546

1564

August 15, 2007

The City Record

145

Service Department
Champion Ave. & W. 100th St. (southwest corner) — sell City-owned property — Mary K. Pikus
(O 1043-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1532
E. 66th Pl. — vacate (O 914-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526
Justin Ave., S.W. — intent to vacate (R 1270-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1464
LED bulbs — purchase — Division of Traffic Engineering (O 1243-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1434
MetroHealth System — 10 banners — right-of-way of Pearl Rd. (O 1272-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1544-1544
Midtown Cleveland, Inc., — property adoption agreement — Euclid Ave. & E. 55th St.
(southeast corner) — lighting, maintenance, landscaping, & other fixtures
(O 1244-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center — banners — Sanaa Community Flea Market (O 1286-07) . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation — banner — Wake Up Call rally at the
Collinwood Sports Complex (O 1284-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
Public right-of-way by service providers — new Sections 510.01 to 510.08 and 510.99 —
Public street pavement preservation — new Section 503.013 (O 1242-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427
Replacement gate for movable bridges — purchase — Division of Engineering and Construction
(O 1046-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1533
Service Providers — moratorium — sidewalk and street obstruction permits (O 1274-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1468-1545
Sky Bank Triathlon — permit — Sky Bank and presented by Pacific Sports (O 1283-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
Slavic Village Development — banner permit — amend Ord. No. 832-07 (O 1278-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547
St. Clair Superior Development Corporation — banners — St. Clair Superior Neighborhood
Festival (O 1285-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
W. 7th St. — intent to vacate (R 1269-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1464
Waste and recycling pilot program — vehicles — leases & purchases — amend Ord.
988-07 (O 1273-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1468-1545
West 14th Street Bridge over I-490 — ornamental fencing — Ohio Department of Transportation —
agreement (O 1044-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1532

Sewers
Alger Road area sewer system — public improvement — include installing manholes and catch
basins (O 827-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
East 177th Street area sewer system — public improvement — include installing manholes
and catch basins (O 829-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
Rates, fees, & charges for water — water-related services & sewerage service — amend Sects.
535.05 & 543.02 (O 1271-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1466-1543
West 127th Street area sewer system — public improvement — include installing manholes
and catch basins (O 831-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1524

Slavic Village Development Corporation
Jones Rd. — banner permit — amend Ord. No. 832-07 (O 1278-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547

Statement of Work Acceptance
Cleaning and Lining 2006-Area A — Contract No. 65604 — Department of
Public Utilities (F 1364-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Cleaning and Lining 2006-Area B — Contract No. 65604 — Department of
Public Utilities (F 1363-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Impett Park Site Improvements — Contract No. 64934 — Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (F 1362-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Street Vacation
E. 66th Pl. — vacate (O 914-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526
Justin Ave., S.W. — intent to vacate (R 1270-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1464
W. 7th St. — intent to vacate (R 1269-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1464

Tabled Legislation
United Science Progress Program — grant — U.S. Conference of Mayors and DuPont — Public
Health (O 1048-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1497

Taxes
County sales tax — raise — Medical Mart & convention center — County Commissioner —
Council’s Support (R 1366-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1490-1519

1565

The City Record

146

August 15, 2007

Traffic Code
Collect unpaid judgments, costs, tickets for photo-enforced red light and speeding offenses
& parking infraction judgements — professional services — new Sects. 149.11 &
413.032 (O 1029-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1527
Photo-enforced traffic offenses — appropriate an amount per paid ticket — amend Ord.
176-A-05 (O 1026-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526

Traffic Engineering & Parking Division
LED bulbs — purchase (O 1243-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1434

Unions
Ohio Nurses Association, Local 85 — collective bargaining agreement — amend Sec. 23. of
Ord. No. 289-06 (O 1277-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1469-1546

Utilities Department
800 MHz radio communication towers, cables, and mounted structures — paint (O 834-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1524
Alger Road area sewer system — public improvement — include installing manholes and catch
basins (O 827-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
Baldwin Water Works — Kirtland Pump Station — public improvement (O 1235-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Cleaning and Lining 2006-Area A — Contract No. 65604 (F 1364-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Cleaning and Lining 2006-Area B — Contract No. 65604 (F 1363-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Customer Information System/Customer Relations Management System — Phases 3 & 4 —
professional services & leases — telecommunications and network lines (O 1036-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1529
Customer-owned distributed generation — PURPA — Division of Cleveland Public Power’s
distribution system (R 1291-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474-1502
Duct line, street lighting bases & pull boxes — purchase — Division of Cleveland Public
Power (O 895-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1525
East 177th Street area sewer system — public improvement — include installing manholes
and catch basins (O 829-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
Financial Information System — software licenses — operation — Cognos Corporation —
contracts (O 823-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
Grounds maintenance equipment & transportation trailers — purchase — Division of Water
(O 637-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1520
Information technology services — professional consultants (O 1954-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1520
iTRACS — contracts — new and upgraded software — amend Ord. 2077-06
(O 1040-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1531
KUBRA Data Transfer Ltd. — contracts — on-line bill paying and electronic bill viewing
capabilities — Cleveland Public Power (O 893-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1524
Meter reading, collections, investigations and meter maintenance systems — hardware and
software-support based — Datamatic, Ltd. — Division of Water (O 1039-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1531
Motorola — requirement contracts — equipment and supplies — radio system
(O 1236-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Plate trucks — repair and maintain — Division of Water Pollution Control (O 825-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
Production truck — TV-23 (O 1237-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Public right-of-way by service providers — new Sections 510.01 to 510.08 and 510.99 —
Public street pavement preservation — new Section 503.013 (O 1242-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427
Rates, fees, & charges for water — water-related services & sewerage service — amend Sects.
535.05 & 543.02 (O 1271-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1466-1543
Scanner hardware — support and maintain — OnBase Document Management System —
CASNET — contracts (O 1038-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1530
Service Providers — moratorium — sidewalk and street obstruction permits (O 1274-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1468-1545
Test equipment — maintenance — Division of Cleveland Public Power (O 896-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1525
Utility poles — test, remove, and replace — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(O 897-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1525
Ventyx Customer Suite, Service Suite and Asset Suite software — contracts — Ventyx —
professional services (O 984-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526
Video Service Provider Fees — paid by — provider offering video service (O 1234-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Water and sewer bills, bill inserts — professional consultants — design, print, format,
and distribute (O 1037-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1530
West 127th Street area sewer system — public improvement — include installing manholes
and catch basins (O 831-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1524

1566

August 15, 2007

The City Record

147

Ward 01
Harvard Community Service Center — agreement — Youth Sports Football
Recreation Program — NEF (O 1344-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1550
Cantrell, Vivian — condolence (R 1367-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program —
amend Ord. 1288-07 — Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 NEF (O 1288-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
E. 143rd St., 4480 — objection — liquor permit (R 1341-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1489-1518
Gibson, Leroy — condolence (R 1379-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Lee Rd., 4102-4104 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1355-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Lee Rd., 4501-03-05 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1356-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Miles Ave. (between E. 167th St & City boundary) — Change the Use Districts — RA-2
Townhouse & Residence Industry (O 1266-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1460
Miles Heights Park to Arthur R. Johnston Playground — change the name
(O 1290-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1550
Wells, Sr., Paul M. — condolence (R 1368-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Ward 02
Dove Park Panthers Youth Association — agreement — Youth Sports Football
Recreation Program — amend Ord. 1145-07 — Ward 2 NEF (O 1345-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1550
Stiggers, Stevie Lee — condolence (R 1380-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Turney Rd., 4595 — new — liquor permit (F 1351-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Umoja and Kuumba Youth Association — agreement — Youth Sports Football
Recreation Program — NEF (O 1346-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1550
Wells, Sr., Paul M. — condolence (R 1368-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Ward 03
Mixson, Marvin G. — condolence (R 1377-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center — banners — Sanaa Community Flea Market
(O 1286-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
Parker, Sr., Bernard Douglas — condolence (R 1375-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Robinson, Jean — condolence (R 1376-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Wells, Sr., Paul M. — condolence (R 1368-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Zelma Watson George Recreation Center — roller skating rink — managerial services for the
daily operations (O 1255-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1447

Ward 04
E.135th St., 3218 — objection — liquor permit (R 1329-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1486-1514
Kelley, Sr. Rev. Dr. Earnest — condolence (R 1369-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Kinsman Rd., 14301 — objection — liquor permit (R 1328-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485-1514
Lamberson, Hattie Mae — condolence (R 1374-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Ward 05
Broadway Ave., 4643 — objection — liquor permit (R 1319-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482-1511
Cedar Ave., 2747 — objection — liquor permit (R 1314-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1481-1509
Central Ave., 3337 — objection — liquor permit (R 1316-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1481-1510
Central Ave., 4621 — objection — liquor permit (R 1318-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482-1511
Central Ave., 7109 — objection — liquor permit (R 1311-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1480-1508
Community College Ave., 3609 — objection — liquor permit (R 1317-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1482-1510
Croton Ave., 3403 — objection — liquor permit (R 1312-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1480-1509
Curry, Vera — congratulations (R 1384-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Dolloff Rd., 5346 — objection — liquor permit (R 1322-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-1512
E. 49th St., 3291 — objection — liquor permit (R 1315-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1481-1510
Kinsman Rd., 7515 — objection — liquor permit (R 1321-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-1512
Midtown Cleveland, Inc., — property adoption agreement — Euclid Ave. & E. 55th St.
(southeast corner) — lighting, maintenance, landscaping, & other fixtures
(O 1244-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Outwaite Ave., 5803 — objection — liquor permit (R 1313-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1480-1509
Pershing Ave., 4818 — objection — liquor permit (R 1320-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1483-1511
St. Michael’s Hospital — 5163 Broadway Ave. — demolition and environmental services — amend
Ord. 1664-05 (O 1275-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1468-1545

1567

The City Record

148

August 15, 2007

Ward 06
East 77th, Eat 79th, Quincy Ave. — Land reutilization Program — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation (O 795-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1521
Elderly Housing Development & Operations Corporation — grant agreement — Community
Development — amend Ord. 1194-04 (O 1279-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1470-1547
Kelley, Sr. Rev. Dr. Earnest — condolence (R 1369-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Wells, Sr., Paul M. — condolence (R 1368-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Witt Johnson, Marjorie — condolence (R 1370-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Ward 07
E. 66th Pl. — vacate (O 914-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1526
Emmau-El A.M.E. Zion Church — congratulations (R 1385-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Superior Ave., 8802 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 1331-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1486-1515

Ward 08
St. Clair Superior Development Corporation — banners — St. Clair Superior Neighborhood
Festival (O 1285-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
Upper Chester District Master Plan — 1906 E. 101st St. — purchase property — Department
of Community Development (O 1260-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1457

Ward 09
Beulah Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Forest Hill Congregation of Jehovahs Witnesses
(O 1262-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1458
Cooper, Gladys — condolence (R 1373-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Johnson, Charles E. — condolence (R 1372-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Joyner, Tom — Welcome (R 1396-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Wadepark Townhouses — Residential Townhouse Development — amending Plat No. 2110-06
(F 1365-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Ward 10
Ayers Griffin, James Anthony — condolence (R 1371-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
E. 152nd St. & Ivanhoe Rd. (lands between) & south of St. Clair Ave. — change the
Use Districts — Local Retail Business District (O 1267-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1462
Liberian Association of Cleveland — recognition (R 1394-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Northeast Neighborhood Development Corporation — banner — Wake Up Call rally at the
Collinwood Sports Complex (O 1284-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548

Ward 11
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program —
amend Ord. 1288-07 — Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 NEF (O 1288-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
Cleveland, City of — 211th birthday — recognition (R 1389-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
E. 200th St., 788 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (Ward 11)
(R 1332-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1486-1515
St. Clair Ave., 15518 — objection — liquor permit (R 1343-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1490-1519

Ward 12
E. 25th St., 3876 — transfer — liquor permit) (F 1354-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
E. 65th St., 3367 — objection — liquor permit (R 1296-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1475-1504
E. 65th St., 3614 — objection — liquor permit (R 1295-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1475-1504
E. 65th St., 3850 — objection — liquor permit (R 1298-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1476-1505
E. 71st St., 3795 — objection — liquor permit (R 1294-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1475-1503
E. 71st St., 4136 — objection — liquor permit (R 1297-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1476-1504
E. 71st St., 4257 — objection — liquor permit (R 1300-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477-1505
Fleet Ave., 5212 — objection — liquor permit (R 1301-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477-1505
Fleet Ave., 5407 — objection — liquor permit (R 1302-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477-1506
Fleet Ave., 5421 — objection — liquor permit (R 1304-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478-1506
Harvard Ave., 7020 — objection — liquor permit (R 1299-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1476-1505
Slavic Village Development — banner permit — amend Ord. No. 832-07 (O 1278-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547
Union Ave., 7018 — objection — liquor permit (R 1303-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1477-1506

1568

August 15, 2007

The City Record

149

Ward 13
Cleveland, City of — 211th birthday — recognition (R 1389-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Downtown Cleveland Alliance, The — agreement — “Downtown Digs,” A Guide to Living Downtown
Cleveland Project — NEF (O 1282-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
Merwin St., Center St., Fall St. & Simms St. (property bounded by) — Establish an
Entertainment Overlay District (O 1068-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1496-1539
Old River Rd., 1204 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 1307-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479-1507
Perkins Ave., 3223 — property improvements — Contract Transport Services, Inc. —
Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan, Economic Development Initiative Grant Agreement
& UDAG Agreement (O 1081-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1540
Prohibited hours in Public Square — new Section 559.541 (O 1140-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1540
Prospect Ave., 618 — objection — liquor permit (R 1306-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478-1507
Sky Bank Triathlon — permit — Sky Bank and presented by Pacific Sports (O 1283-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
St. Clair Ave., 3040-48 — objection — liquor permit (R 1308-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479-1507
St. Clair Ave., 6524 — objection — liquor permit (R 1310-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479-1508
St. Clair Ave., 6702 — objection — liquor permit (R 1309-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1479-1508
St. Clair Ave., 6702 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1353-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
St. Clair Superior Development Corporation — banners — St. Clair Superior Neighborhood
Festival (O 1285-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
St. Clair-Superior Development Corp. — ArtSpace/Cleveland Live/Work — promotion —
agreement — NEF (O 1280-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1470-1547
St. Vitus Development Corporation — grant agreement — housing for senior citizens — NEF
(O 1281-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
Steelyard Dr., 3400 — new — liquor permit (F 1349-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Swann, Lynn — recognition (R 1388-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
W. 28th St. (east side) — sell City-owned property — PPN 003-38-049 — Great Lakes Brewing
Company (O 1061-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1537
W. 7th St. — intent to vacate (R 1269-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1464
W. 9th St., 1299 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 1305-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1478-1507

Ward 14
Clark Ave., 4105 — objection — liquor permit (R 1336-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1488-1516
Clark Ave., 4322 — objection — liquor permit (R 1339-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1489-1517
Clark Ave., 4322 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1352-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Clark Ave., 5110 — objection — liquor permit (R 1340-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1489-1518
National Night Out Against Crime — 24th Annual — recognition (R 1390-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Storer Ave., 4701 — objection — liquor permit (R 1337-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1488-1517
Storer Ave., 5004 — objection — liquor permit (R 1338-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1488-1517
W. 25th St., 3203 — objection — liquor permit (R 1333-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1487-1515
W. 44th St., 3353 — objection — liquor permit (R 1334-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1487-1516
W. 46th St., 3355 — objection — liquor permit (R 1335-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1487-1516

Ward 15
Broadview Rd., 2011 — objection — liquor permit (R 1324-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484-1513
Fulton Rd., 4262 — objection — liquor permit (R 1326-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485-1513
Memphis Ave., 5200 — objection — liquor permit (R 1325-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484-1513
MetroHealth System — 10 banners — right-of-way of Pearl Rd. (O 1272-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1544-1544
Pearl Rd., 4256 — objection — liquor permit (R 1327-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1485-1514
Spring Rd., 1503 — objection — liquor permit (R 1323-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1484-1512

Ward 16
Cantrell, Vivian — condolence (R 1367-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program —
amend Ord. 1288-07 — Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 NEF (O 1288-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
Ridge Rd., 3837 — objection — liquor permit (R 1330-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1486-1515

Ward 17
Detroit Ave., 5901 — objection — liquor permit (R 1342-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1490-1518
Lorain Rd. south (between W. 80th St. & W. 73rd St.) — Change the Use Districts — Local
Retail Business District (O 1268-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1463
Sky Bank Triathlon — permit — Sky Bank and presented by Pacific Sports (O 1283-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
Wendy Park Foundation — agreement — Great Lakes Expo — NEF (O 1289-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1473-1549
White, III, Rev. Ogden (“Ogie”) — congratulations (R 1386-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Yuhas, Richard & Mary Jane — congratulations (R 1387-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

1569

The City Record

150

August 15, 2007

Ward 18
Champion Ave. & W. 100th St. (southwest corner) — sell City-owned property — Mary K. Pikus
(O 1043-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1494-1532
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — amend Ord. 1288-07 —
Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 NEF (O 1288-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
Clifton Blvd., 11521 — new — liquor permit (F 1350-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Lake Ave., 11623 & W. 116th St., 1227 — sell City-owned property — Marous Development LLC —
Option to Purchase Agreement — Community Development and Parks, Recreation
and Properties (O 1259-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1457
Midland Steel site — 10615 Madison Ave. — purchase — amend Ord. 1138-05 (O 1064-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1495-1538
Sky Bank Triathlon — permit — Sky Bank and presented by Pacific Sports (O 1283-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1471-1548
Wells, Sr., Paul M. — condolence (R 1368-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
West Tech Alumni Association — recognition (R 1395-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Ward 19
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home Preservation Program — amend Ord. 1288-07 —
Wards 1, 11, 16, 18, 19 NEF (O 1288-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
Lorain Ave., 10330 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 1293-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1474-1503
W. 121st St. extension — public improvement — amend Ord. No. 2072-05 (O 1256-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1466-1543

Ward 20
Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation — grant agreement — Home Repair Program — NEF
(O 1287-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472-1549
Bess, Michael I. — recognition (R 1392-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Brown, Denoris — recognition (R 1393-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Calabrese, Carol Frances — congratulations (R 1382-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Cleveland Food Week / Fabulous Food Show — recognition (R 1391-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Hunter, Sr., Deacon Jonas Lewis — condolence (R 1378-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Justin Ave., S.W. — intent to vacate (R 1270-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1464
Tonne, Sgt. Tammy T. — congratulations (R 1383-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
United Parcel Service — 100th Anniversary — congratulations (R 1381-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Wells, Sr., Paul M. — condolence (R 1368-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Ward 21
Keane, Martin J. — oath of office — Council Member (F 1357-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423

Water Division
Baldwin Water Works — Kirtland Pump Station — public improvement (O 1235-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Financial Information System — software licenses — operation — Cognos Corporation —
contracts — Public Utilities (O 823-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
Grounds maintenance equipment & transportation trailers — purchase (O 637-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1520
Meter reading, collections, investigations and meter maintenance systems — hardware and
software-support based — Datamatic, Ltd. (O 1039-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1531
Water and sewer bills, bill inserts — professional consultants — design, print, format,
and distribute — Public Utilities (O 1037-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1493-1530

Water Pollution Control Division
Alger Road area sewer system — public improvement — include installing manholes and catch
basins (O 827-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
East 177th Street area sewer system — public improvement — include installing manholes
and catch basins (O 829-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
Plate trucks — repair and maintain (O 825-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1491-1523
West 127th Street area sewer system — public improvement — include installing manholes
and catch basins (O 831-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1492-1524

Water Service Charges
Rates, fees, & charges for water — water-related services & sewerage service — amend Sects.
535.05 & 543.02 (O 1271-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1466-1543

1570

August 15, 2007

The City Record

151

Welcome
Joyner, Tom (R 1396-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

Zoning
E. 152nd St. & Ivanhoe Rd. (lands between) & south of St. Clair Ave. — change the
Use Districts — Local Retail Business District (O 1267-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1462
Lorain Rd. south (between W. 80th St. & W. 73rd St.) — Change the Use Districts — Local
Retail Business District (O 1268-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1463
Merwin St., Center St., Fall St. & Simms St. (property bounded by) — Establish an
Entertainment Overlay District (O 1068-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1496-1539
Miles Ave. (between E. 167th St & City boundary) — Change the Use Districts — RA-2
Townhouse & Residence Industry (O 1266-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1460

1571

