The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Twenty-Eighth, Two Thousand and Fifteen

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Kevin J. Kelley
President of Council

Containing

PAGE

City Council

3

The Calendar

12

Board of Control

12

Civil Service

13

1 Terrell H. Pruitt

Board of Zoning Appeals

13

2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman

Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
14

4 Kenneth L. Johnson

Public Notice

14

5 Phyllis E. Cleveland

Public Hearings

15

6 Mamie J. Mitchell

City of Cleveland Bids

15

7 TJ Dow

Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances

16

Committee Meetings

16

Index

16

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name

8 Michael D. Polensek
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Jeffrey D. Johnson
11 Dona Brady
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Brian Kazy
17 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Kevin J. Kelley
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Name
Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zack Reed ..........................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Brian Kazy.........................................601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 220
44114
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Martin J. Flask, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Special Projects
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Public Affairs
Edward W. Rybka, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Dan Williams, Media Relations Director
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Matthew L. Spronz, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — Richard J. Switalski, Manager
Real Estate — James DeRosa, Commissioner
OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY – Melissa K. Burrows, Ph.D., Director
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Director, Gary D. Singletary, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Victor R. Perez, Chief Assistant Prosecutor, Room 106: John Skrtic, Law Librarian,
Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Natasha Brandt, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – James Hartley, Interim Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – Tiffany White, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Sharon Dumas, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Frank Badalamenti, Chief Financial Officer
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Antionette Thompson, Interim Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Samuel Gissentaner, Interim Commissioner
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Randell T. Scott, Interim Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Toinette Parrilla, Director, 75 Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Chantez Williams, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Myron Benett, Commissioner, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Michael C. McGrath, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Animal Control Services – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Nicole Carlton, Acting Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Patrick Kelly, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Calvin D. Williams, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – John Mahoney, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Ronald J.H. O'Leary, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Narid Hussain, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Eugene R. Miller (Board Lawyer), Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice
Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline Hardaway, John O. Horton, Gary
Johnson, Sr., Daniel McNea, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad, Gia Hoa
Ryan, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Kevin
J. Kelley; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Elizabeth
Kukla, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516,
Joseph F. Denk, Chairman; Howard Bradley, Patrick M. Gallagher, Robert Maschke, Halim
M. Saab, P.E., Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.F.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry,
President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Capital Projects Director Matthew Spronz, Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Utilities Director Paul Bender; Council President Kevin J. Kelley.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Director; Anthony
J. Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Chairman;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Councilman
Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Freddy L. Collier, Jr., Allan Dreyer, Giancarlo Calicchia, Council Member
Terrell H. Pruitt, Robert Strickland, Julie Trott, Robert Vilkas, Donald Petit, Interim
Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Kevin J. Kelley; Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12B
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 13A
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Ed Wade – Courtroom 12A
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Gregory A. Sims
– Chief Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate.

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2015

Vol. 102

No. 5277

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2015-2017
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman
(CHAIR), Mitchell (VICE-CHAIR),
Brady, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins, J. Johnson.
9:30 A.M. — Municipal Services
and Properties Committee: K. Johnson (CHAIR), Dow (VICE-CHAIR),
Brancatelli, Cummins, J. Johnson,
Kazy, Reed.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley (CHAIR), Cleveland (VICECHAIR), Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane, Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Development, Planning and Sustainability Committee:
Brancatelli
(CHAIR),
Cleveland
(VICE-CHAIR), Cimperman, Cummins, Dow, Pruitt, Zone.
TUESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Utilities Committee:
(VICEPruitt
(CHAIR),
Brady
Brancatelli,
Cummins,
CHAIR),
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Workforce and Community Benefits Committee: Cleveland (CHAIR), Zone (VICE-CHAIR),
J.Johnson, Kazy, Polensek, Pruitt,
Reed.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Safety Committee:
Zone
(CHAIR),
Conwell
(VICECHAIR), Cimperman, Kazy, Keane,
Mitchell, Polensek.
10:00 A.M. — Transportation Committee:
Keane
(CHAIR),
Dow
(VICE-CHAIR), Conwell, J. Johnson,
K.Johnson, Kazy, Reed.

The following Committees meet at
the Call of the Chair:
Mayor's Appointments Committee:
Dow (CHAIR), Brady, Cleveland,
Kelley, Mitchell.
Operations
Committee:
Pruitt
(CHAIR), Mitchell, Kelley, Keane,
Zone.
Kelley
Keane,

Rules
Committee:
(CHAIR),
Cleveland,
Polensek, Pruitt.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 26, 2015
The meeting of the Council was
called to order at 7:04 p.m. with the
President of Council, Kevin J. Kelley, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Dona
Brady,
Anthony
Brancatelli,
Joe
Cimperman, Phyllis E. Cleveland,
Kevin Conwell, Brian J. Cummins,
Jeffrey D. Johnson, Brian Kazy,
Kevin J. Kelley, Kenneth L. Johnson, Martin J. Keane, Mamie J.
Mitchell, Michael D. Polensek, Terrell H. Pruitt, Zack Reed, and
Matthew Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chief of Staff Ken Silliman, Chief Operating Officer Darnell Brown, Chief of Government
Affairs Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Regional Development Edward W.
Rybka, Chief of Education Monyka
S. Price, Chief of Sustainability Jenita McGowan, Chief of Public Affairs
Natoya Walker-Minor, and Directors
Langhenry, Smith, Spronz, Parrilla,
Cox, Rush, O’Leary, Southerington,
Nichols, Griffin, Fumich, Ambroz
and Burrows.
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection,
and the Pledge of Allegiance.

File No. 63-15.
Bradley J. Engelhart,
Chief of Fire. Received.

Battalion

File No. 64-15.
William F. Gorey, III, Battalion
Chief of Fire. Received.
File No. 65-15.
James D. Thomas, Battalion Chief
of Fire. Received.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 66-15.
From Director Toinette Parrilla,
Department of Public Health, City
of Cleveland. Notification of acceptance of a grant of $600.00 from the
SID Network of Ohio, for Safe Sleep
“Baby Shower” events in three city
neighborhoods
with
the
highest
infant mortality rates. Received.
File No. 94-15.
From Greg Baron, Director of
Real Estate Development, Detroit
Shoreway Community Development
Organization. Notice of intent to
apply to Ohio Housing Finance
Agency’s low income tax credit program for the development of The
Lofts at Lion Mills, at 3256 West
25th
Street
in
Cleveland,
Ohio.
Received.
File No. 95-15.
From Greg Baron, Director of
Real Estate Development, Detroit
Shoreway Community Development
Organization. Notice of intent to
apply to Ohio Housing Finance
Agency’s low income tax credit program for the development of Aspen
Place, at the northeast corner of
West 61st Street and Lorain Avenue
in Cleveland, Ohio. Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 67-15.
RE: #7748295. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2. SAS Grocery, Inc., 6506 Fleet Avenue (Ward
12). Received.

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Polensek, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was disthe
journal
pensed
with
and
approved. Seconded by Council Member Conwell.
OATHS OF OFFICE
File No. 61-15.
John P. Coughlin, Battalion Chief
of Fire. Received.
File No. 62-15.
Vince
J.
Diteodoro,
Chief of Fire. Received.

77

Battalion

File No. 68-15.
RE: #8429701. Transfer of Ownership Application, C2 C2X. Speedy
Harvard, LLC, 4025 East 131st Street
(Ward 2). Received.
File No. 69-15.
RE: #6483990. Transfer of Location Application, D2 D2X D3 D3A.
Odeon Concert Club, LLC, 1295 Old
River Road (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 70-15.
RE: #9555232. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2 D6. West
Side Mini Mart, LLC, 3778 West
117th Street (Ward 11). Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 71-15.
RE: #0909290. Transfer of Ownership Application, C1 C2. Brahamani
Food, LLC, 5741 Memphis Avenue
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 72-15.
RE: #7735578. Transfer of Ownership Application, D1 D2 D3 D3A D6.
Santorini Taverna, LLC, 1382 West
9th Street (Ward 3). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 98-15—Henrietta (Jackson) Patrick.
Res. No. 99-15—Polly Powell.
Res. No. 100-15—Jerry M. Walker,
Jr.
Res. No. 101-15—Larry R. Lane.
Res. No. 102-15—Charlie Stephen
McDowell, Sr.
Res. No. 103-15—Alec Fedikovich.
Res. No. 104-15—Oleatha Wilson.
Res. No. 105-15—Artelia Jones.
Res. No. 108-15—James D. Ireland,
III.
Res. No. 109-15—Lera Pauline Ruffin.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 106-15—White House Initiative on Asian Americans and
Pacific Islanders Region 5 AAPI
Community Listening Session.
Res. No. 107-15—Radihka Reddy.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 75-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and Brancatelli (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 835-14, passed September 29, 2014,
relating to a permit to encroach into
the public right-of-way of East 9th
Street, Superior Avenue, and Walnut
Avenue by installing, using, and
maintaining permanent streetscape
improvements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section
1 of Ordinance No. 835-14, passed September 29, 2014, are amended to read
as follows:
Authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to issue a permit to 1717 East
9th LLC to encroach into the public
right-of-way of East 9th Street, Superior Avenue, and Walnut Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining
permanent
streetscape
improvements.
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to 1717 East 9th LLC, 4420 Sherwin
Road, Willoughby, Ohio 44094 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the public
right-of-way of East 9th Street, Superior Avenue, and Walnut Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining
permanent streetscape improvements
including, but not limited to, curbed
tree pits and grates, irrigation lines

and appurtenances, fencing for outdoor dining area, lighted planters and
electrical ducts, “Column”-style pedestrian lights and electrical ducts, 8" by
36" bollards, ramp and railing, at the
following location:
Encroachment Permit Area
1717 East 9th Street
Cleveland, Ohio
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lot No. 167, said
premises being more particularly
bounded and described as follows:
BEGINNING at the intersection of
the northeasterly line of East 9th
Street (formerly Erie Street), 99 feet
wide, and the southeasterly line of
Superior Avenue N. E., 132 feet wide;
Course No. 1: thence South 33°-59'50" East along the northeasterly line
of East 9th Street, a distance of 132.83
feet to its intersection with the northwesterly line of Walnut Avenue N. E.,
66 feet wide;
Course No. 2: thence North 55°-53'43" East along the northwesterly line
of Walnut Avenue N. E., a distance of
137.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 3: thence South 34°-06'17" East, a distance of 15.00 feet to a
point;
Course No. 4: thence South 55°-53'43" West, a distance of 130.78 feet to a
point of curvature;
Course No. 5: thence northwesterly
along the arc of a curve deflecting to
the right, a distance of 31.38 feet to a
point of tangency, said curve having
a radius of 20.00 feet, a central angle
of 89°-53'-33", a tangent distance of
19.96 feet, and a chord which bears
North 79°-03'-04" West, 28.26 feet;
Course No. 6: thence North 33°-59'50" West, a distance of 128.81 feet to a
point of curvature;
Course No. 7: thence northeasterly
along the arc of a curve deflecting to
the right, a distance of 42.51 feet to a
point of tangency, said curve having
a radius of 27.00 feet, a central angle
of 90°-12'-10", a tangent distance of
27.10 feet, and a chord which bears
North 10°-54'-05" East, 38.25 feet;
Course No. 8: thence North 55°-48'00" East, a distance of 143.65 feet to a
point;
Course No. 9: thence South 34°-12'00" East, a distance of 28.00 feet to a
point on the southeasterly line of
Superior Avenue N. E.;
Course No. 10: thence South 55°-48'00" West along the southeasterly line
of said Superior Avenue N. E., a distance of 157.00 feet to the place of
beginning, said premises containing
0.198 acre of land more or less, as prepared in June of 2014 by Robert A.
Dorner, Registered Professional Land
Surveyor No. 6943 on behalf of
McSteen & Associates, Inc. under Project No. 14-080 and being subject to all
legal highways and easements of
record.
The basis of bearings for this survey is North 55°-48'-00" East as the
centerline of Superior Avenue N. E.,
as evidenced by monuments found,
and is the same bearing as found in
Volume 365 of Maps, Pages 78 and 79
of Cuyahoga County Records.

78

January 28, 2015
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 835-14,
passed September 29, 2014, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees in Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability.
Ord. No. 76-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants
from the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development for
the CDBG Year 41 under the Title I of
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2015 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act
Program, Emergency Solutions Grant
Program, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
apply for and accept grants from the
U. S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) in the following
approximate
amounts:
$19,786,712 to conduct the 2015 Year 41
Community
Development
Block
Grant (CDBG) Program; $3,343,204 to
conduct the Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act (HOME) Program; $1,669,417 to conduct the Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) Program; and $950,680 for the Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS
(HOPWA) Program, for the purposes
and uses set forth in the budgets and
in compliance with the requirements
of Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and
applicable rules and regulations.
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grants, and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the budgets for the grants.
Section 2. That the budget allocations for the grants, placed in File No.
76-15-A, made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, are approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development. Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.

January 28, 2015

The City Record

5

Ord. No. 77-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent
Association (OPBA) Security Officers; and to amend Section 14 of Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March 31, 2014,
relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the collective
bargaining agreement with the Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association (OPBA) Security Officers, under the terms
contained in File No. 77-15-A, for the period from April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2016, and which provides, among
other things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit under the following
schedule:
Increase
Approximate Date of Increase
1%
April 1, 2013
2%
April 1, 2014
2%
April 1, 2015
Section 2. That Section 14 of Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March 31, 2014, is amended to read as follows:
Section 14. Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association. (Security Officers). That salaries and compensation in the
following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing
after each classification:

1

Security Officer............................................................................

Minimum
$13.88

Maximum
$21.53

Section 3. That existing Section 14 of Ordinance No. 385-14, passed March 31, 2014, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Human Resources, Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 78-15.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to be a co-applicant and coGrantee with Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Authority which will allow
CMHA to accept HUD funding to
implement the Choice Neighborhoods
Implementation Grant.
Whereas, the Department of Community Development is authorized to
be a co-applicant and co-Grantee with
the Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority (“CMHA”), the Lead Applicant, to receive United States Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (“HUD”) Choice Neighborhood
Implementation (“CNI”) grant funds
in an amount up to $30,000,000; and
Whereas, as part of HUD’s grantfunding process under the CNI grant,
HUD requires a local city to be listed
on the application as a co-applicant
and to be obligated as a co-Grantee
under the CNI Grant Agreement; and
Whereas, only the Lead Applicant
is authorized to receive the CNI grant
proceeds; and
Whereas, the CNI grant supports
locally driven solutions for transforming distressed neighborhoods
using
place-based
strategies
to
address housing, neighborhoods, and
people; and
Whereas, one of CMHA’s initiatives
under CNI grant will be to redevelop
the Cedar Estates through these
funds and other leveraged funding
sources; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That The Director of Community Development is authorized to
be a co-applicant and co-Grantee with
CMHA and to enter into a Choice

Neighborhoods
Implementation
Grant Agreement with HUD that will
allow CMHA to receive up to
$30,000,000 in CNI grant funding from
HUD.
Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into a separate agreement with
CMHA regarding the implementation
of the CNI grant program.
Section 3. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 78-15-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Development Planning and
Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 79-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts by way of
concession for the provision of not to
exceed one hundred and twenty pay
telephones at various City facilities,
but excluding the rights-of-way of the
City, for a term of two years with two
one-year options to renew, the first of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

79

Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1967, to the
contrary, the Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts by way of concession, on the
basis of competitive proposals to be
selected by the Board of Control, for
the provision of not to exceed one hundred and twenty pay telephones at
various City facilities, but excluding
any of the rights-of-way of the City.
The facilities may include Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Public Hall, Public Auditorium, City Hall,
City jails, and other City facilities, or
any combination of these facilities, as
deemed most advantageous in the
opinion of the Director of Finance.
The contract or contracts authorized
by this ordinance shall be for a term
of not to exceed two years, with two
one-year options to renew. The first of
the one-year options to renew may not
be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional
legislative authority is granted and
the first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second of
the one-year options to renew may be
exercisable at the option of the Director of Finance, without the necessity
of obtaining additional authority of
this Council. The contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law, and approved and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

6
Ord. No. 80-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more Concession
Agreements for the operation of concession stands at Gordon Park and
Brookside Park, for the Department
of Public Works, for a period not to
exceed three years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Public
Works is authorized to enter into one
or more Concession Agreements on
the basis of competitive proposals for
the operation of concession stands at
Gordon Park and Brookside Park.
The selection of the concessionaire or
concessionaires shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Works. The
concession fee to be paid to the City
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
Each Concession Agreement shall not
exceed a term of three years.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Municipal Services and Properties,
Finance.
Ord. No. 81-15.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of computer
hardware and software, including
printers, ancillary accessories, parts,
supplies, peripheral devices, and
labor and materials for installation if
necessary, and maintenance, support,
and training, for the various divisions
of City government, for a period of
three years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which is
exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period of
three years, with two one-year
options to renew, of the necessary
items of hardware and software,
including printers, ancillary accessories, parts, supplies, peripheral
devices, and labor and materials for
installation if necessary, and maintenance, support, and training, in the
approximate amount as purchased

The City Record
during the preceding term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the various divisions of City government. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term. The
first of the one-year options to renew
may not be exercised without additional legislative authority. If such
additional legislative authority is
granted and the first of the one-year
options to renew is exercised, then the
second of the one-year options to
renew may be exercisable at the
option of the Director of Finance
without the necessity of obtaining
additional authority of this Council.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RQN 1511, RL 2015-1)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 96-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 1061-14,
passed September 15, 2014; to add new
Section 9; and renumber existing Section 9 to new Section 10, relating to
funding for the traffic signalization
improvements and utility relocations
necessary for the redevelopment of
Public Square.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 8 of Ordinance No. 1061-14, passed September
15, 2014, is amended to read as follows:
Section 8. That, excluding the cost
of the traffic signalization improvements and utility relocations identified in Section 9, the cost to the City
for the Improvement and property

80

January 28, 2015
acquisition authorized in this ordinance shall not exceed $10,000,000 and
shall be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited any gifts or grants
received under this ordinance and
from the fund or funds approved by
the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That existing Section 8 of
Ordinance No. 1061-14, passed September 15, 2014, is repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 106114, passed September 15, 2014, is supplemented by adding new Section 9 to
read as follows:
Section 9. That the cost to the City
for the traffic signalization improvement and utility relocations necessary to implement this ordinance,
shall not exceed $5,015,000, and shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 11 SF 006, 52
SF 001, 54 SF 001, 58 SF 001, 20 SF 520,
20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, 20 SF
546, 20 SF 554, 20 SF 563, and shall be
paid from the fund or funds to which
are credited any gifts or grants
received under this ordinance and
from the fund or funds approved by
the Director of Finance. (RQS 7001,
RL 2015-12)
Section 4. That existing Section 9 of
Ordinance No. 1061-14, passed September 15, 2014, is renumbered to new
“Section 10”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Capital Projects, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and
Properties, Development Planning
and Sustainability, Finance.
Ord. No. 97-15.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent to the County of Cuyahoga to
construct a pedestrian and bicycle
bridge which will connect Mall C to
the North Coast Harbor District as
identified in Ordinance No. 1061-14,
passed September 15, 2014; authorizing the Director of Public Works to
lease the bridge from the County for a
period up to thirty years; authorizing
the Director of Public Works, or other
directors as necessary, to execute various deeds of easement and various
temporary deeds of easement granting to various entities certain easement rights in property associated
with the bridge; declaring the easement rights not needed for the City’s
public use; and authorizing a cooperative agreement and other agreements.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
requires certain public improvement
property currently known as the
pedestrian and bicycle bridge which
will connect Mall C to the North Coast
Harbor District as identified in Ordinance No. 1061-14, passed September
15, 2014 (the “Bridge”), for the public
purpose of providing a walkway; and
Whereas, the County of Cuyahoga
(“County”) has proposed to lease the
Bridge to the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

January 28, 2015
Section 1. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
County to construct the Bridge under
plans, specifications, and estimates
approved by the City.
Section 2. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the County by leasing
the Bridge.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to lease the
Bridge from the County, for a period
not to exceed thirty (30) years
(“Lease”).
Section 4. That the rent for the
Lease authorized by this ordinance
shall be $10,000,000, payable under
terms negotiated by the parties, and
other valuable consideration, which
is determined to be fair market value,
exclusive of utilities.
Section 5. That the costs of the
Lease shall be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited the proceeds of the sale of bonds authorized
by Ordinance No. 1630-14, passed January 12, 2015, and issued for this purpose.
Section 6. That the Lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain any terms and conditions as are required to protect the
interests of the City, including but not
limited to, requiring any pre-paid rent
be refunded to the City if the bridge is
not timely constructed and the leasehold does not go into effect in a timely fashion.
Section 7. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
easement interests needed to effectuate this ordinance are not needed for
the City’s public use.
Section 8. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the abovedescribed easement interests and temporary easements to the appropriate
entities subject to any conditions stated in this ordinance at a price to be
determined by the Board of Control.
Section 9. That the purpose of the
easements shall be to effectuate this
ordinance.
Section 10. That the duration of the
easements shall be permanent; that
the duration of the temporary easements shall be as the Director of Public Works determines are necessary;
that the easements and temporary
easements may include reasonable
right of entry rights to the City; that
the easements and temporary easements shall not be assignable without
the consent of the Director of Public
Works; that the easements and temporary easements shall require reasonable insurance, if applicable, and
that the associated entity shall pay
any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 11. That the conveyances
referred to above shall be made by
official deeds of easement and official deeds of temporary easement prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public
Works, or other directors as necessary, on behalf of the City of Cleveland. The deeds of easement and the
deeds of temporary easement shall
contain any additional terms and conditions as are required to protect the
interest of the City. The Directors of
Public Works and Law, or other directors as necessary, are authorized to

The City Record
execute any other documents, including without limitation, contracts for
right of entry, as may be necessary to
effect this ordinance.
Section 12. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with various
entities or execute documents or certificates, or take any action which
may be necessary or appropriate to
effectuate this ordinance and to protect the City’s interest. The agreements, may include but are not limited to, agreements with the County
and/or the Group Plan Commission
regarding a cooperative agreement
and/or maintenance of the Bridge
during the term of the Lease and the
assignment to County of certain air
and property rights granted by Consolidated Rail Corporation to the City
on June 23, 1987 as needed to effect
this ordinance.
Section 13. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Municipal Services and Properties, Development Planning and Sustainability,
Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 73-15.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution supporting a proposal that the State Board of
Education
ban
discrimination
against public and charter school
teachers
and
school
personnel
because of sexual orientation.
Whereas, to prevent discrimination against public and charter
school teachers and school personnel
because of sexual orientation, Ohio
state
school
board
member
Stephanie Todd has again asked the
State Board of Education to support
adding sexual orientation to the
state school board’s list of protected
classes in school employment; and
Whereas, last April, 2014, the state
board of education rejected the proposal; however, in December, Ms.
Todd renewed her request that the
state board consider adding the antidiscrimination
proposal
to
state
operating standards for schools; and
Whereas, today teachers that are
gay, bisexual or transgender may be
fired for their sexual orientation;
and
Whereas, this Council believes
that it is unfair to discriminate on
the basis of sexual orientation and
that such a protection is necessary
in state schools’ operation standards; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports a proposal that the State Board
of Education ban discrimination
against public and charter school
teachers
and
school
personnel
because of sexual orientation.

81

7
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to forward a copy of this
resolution to the Ohio State Board of
Education and the LGBT Community
Center of Greater Cleveland.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Director of Law; Committee on Finance.
Res. No. 74-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution Declaring
this Council’s support of the Emerald
Development and Economic Network,
Inc.’s (EDEN, Inc.’s) application to
the Ohio Housing Finance Agency for
low-income housing tax credits and
additional project funding for the
EDEN Scattered Site Preservation
Initiative Phase II project.
Whereas, each year the Ohio
Housing Finance Agency allocates
low-income
housing
credits
for
affordable
housing
developments
throughout Ohio using a competitive
proposal process; and
Whereas, the Cleveland City Council has recognized the need to maintain affordable housing in Cleveland’s neighborhoods; and
Whereas, EDEN Scattered Site
Preservation
Initiative
Phase
II
involves the substantial renovation
of up to 75 units of affordable housing, including up to 30 units in the
City of Cleveland and the remaining
in surrounding suburbs; and
Whereas, the project is made up
of a variety of housing types, including single-family and small multifamily buildings with one to four
bedroom layouts designed to include
a variety of local families; and
Whereas, EDEN, Inc. has provided affordable housing to individuals
with a mental illness or a family
member with a mental illness since
the early 1990’s, and this project is
designed to continue to serve this
population after renovation; and
Whereas, this Council supports
EDEN Inc.’s funding application to
the Ohio Housing Finance Agency
for project funding, including 2015
Low Income Housing Tax Credits,
Housing
Development
Assistance
Program funds, and Housing Loan
Program funds; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
remains committed to a continued
partnership with EDEN, Inc. and the
development of EDEN Scattered Site
Preservation Initiative Phase II project, as we work together to meet
the affordable housing needs of our
community members with a mental
illness; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the Emerald Development and
Economic Network, Inc.’s (EDEN,
Inc.’s) application to the Ohio Housing Finance Agency for low-income
housing tax credits and additional

8
project funding for the EDEN Scattered Site Preservation Initiative
Phase II project.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit a copy
of this resolution to Diana Holly,
Asset Manager, EDEN, Inc.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Director of Law; Committee on Finance.
Res. No. 92-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution supporting Welcome House’s application to
the Ohio Housing Finance Agency for
low-income housing tax credits and
additional project funding for the proposed redevelopment of the Cuyahoga
County Archives Building, located in
the Ohio City neighborhood at 2905
Franklin Boulevard, into affordable
housing for residents with developmental disabilities.
Whereas, Welcome House, Inc., a
provider of housing and services to
individuals with developmental disabilities throughout Cuyahoga County, has acquired the Rhodes House
and Annex on Franklin Boulevard
from Cuyahoga County and plans to
convert it into twenty-four apartments for young adults with developmental disabilities who are aging
out of the County’s programs in
their foster care system; and
Whereas, there is insufficient supportive housing for this needy population, and this project will help
these young adults become independent and productive members of our
community; and
Whereas, Welcome House’s project will inject over $5 million of
investment into Ohio City and create approximately twenty permanent jobs in addition to construction
jobs; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
supports the collaboration between
Welcome
House,
the
Cuyahoga
County Board of Developmental Disabilities, the Alcohol, Drug Addiction, and Mental Health Services
(ADAMHS) Board, and the Department of Children and Family Services; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
respects
the
work
of
Welcome
House in providing residential services to individuals with developmental disabilities and welcomes
Welcome House to the City of Cleveland and Ohio City community; and
Whereas, this Council understands
the great benefit of this project, and
enthusiastically supports Welcome
House’s plans; and
Whereas, this Council supports
Welcome House’s funding application to the Ohio Housing Finance
Agency for project funding, including Low-Income Housing Tax Credits, Cleveland Housing Trust funds,
and Affordable Housing Program
funds; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports Welcome House’s application to
the Ohio Housing Finance Agency for
low-income housing tax credits and
additional project funding for the proposed redevelopment of the Cuyahoga
County Archives Building, located in
the Ohio City neighborhood at 2905
Franklin Boulevard, into affordable
housing for residents with developmental disabilities.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Director of Law; Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 82-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the St. Malachi’s Church
run, on March 14, 2015, sponsored by
Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the St. Malachi’s Church run, on
March 14, 2015, start: Veterans Memorial Bridge; Veterans Bridge east to
West 6th Street; West 6th north to St.
Clair Avenue; St. Clair east to Ontario
Avenue; Ontario north to Lakeside
Avenue; Lakeside west to West 3rd
Street; West 3rd north to Erieside
Avenue; Erieside east to North Marginal Road; North Marginal east to
Burke Airport Loop Drive; turn
around, North Marginal west to
Erieside; Erieside west to West 3rd;
West 3rd south to Lakeside; Lakeside
west to West 9th Street; West 9th
south to Superior Avenue; Superior
west to West 25th Street; West 25th
north to Washington Avenue; Washington east to Center Street; Center
north to FINISH LINE; provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.

82

January 28, 2015
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 83-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for The National Multiple Sclerosis Society walk, on April 18, 2015,
sponsored by The National Multiple
Sclerosis Society.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
The National Multiple Sclerosis Society walk, on April 18, 2015, start:
Great Lakes Science Center, Erieside
Avenue; Erieside east to East 9th
Street; East 9th south to Huron Road;
Huron west to Superior Avenue; Superior across to West 6th Street; West
6th north to St. Clair Avenue; St. Clair
east to West 3rd Street; West 3rd
north to Alfred Lerner Way/Erieside
Avenue; Finish at the Great Lakes
Science Center, Erieside Avenue; provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 84-15.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of location of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit to 5379 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of location of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from Jozo & Branka,
Inc., DBA Croatian Home Bar, 6314
St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 4403355 to
Mrki Enterprises, LLC, DBA Mrkis
Place, 5379 St. Clair Avenue, 1st

January 28, 2015
floor and patio, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 6202749;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
from Jozo & Branka, Inc., DBA Croatian Home Bar, 6314 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 4403355 to Mrki Enterprises,
LLC, DBA Mrkis Place, 5379 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st floor and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number
6202749; and requests the Superintendent of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 85-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of location of a D2,
D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
1295 Old River Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit from HMR of
Ohio, Inc., 1228 West 6th Street, 1st
floor, basement and patio, Mezzanine and Courtyard, 1228 West 6th
Street Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 3464783 to Odeon Concert Club, LLC, DBA The Odeon,
1295 Old River Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
6483990; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
location of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit from HMR of Ohio,
Inc., 1228 West 6th Street, 1st floor,
basement and patio, Mezzanine and
Courtyard, 1228 West 6th Street Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number
3464783 to Odeon Concert Club, LLC,
DBA The Odeon, 1295 Old River Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 6483990; and requests the
Superintendent of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

83

9
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeadoption
and
diately
upon
its
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 86-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor
Permit at 3230 West 65th Street and
repealing Resolution No. 1136-14,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 Liquor Permit to Bargains
3 & 5, Inc., DBA Paradise Supermarket, 3230 West 65th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102 by Resolution No.
1136-14 adopted by the Council on
September 8, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit to Bargains 3 & 5,
Inc., DBA Paradise Supermarket, 3230
West 65th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 0446400, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1136-14, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate permit
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 87-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 1261-65
West 6th Street, 1st floor and patio
and repealing Resolution No. 1024-14,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit to W. 6th Restaurant Group,
Ltd., DBA Barley House Cleveland,
1261-65 West 6th Street, 1st floor and
patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 9330015 by Resolution
No. 1024-14, adopted by the Council
on August 20, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and

10
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit
to W. 6th Restaurant Group, Ltd.,
DBA Barley House Cleveland, 1261-65
West 6th Street, 1st floor and patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 9330015, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1024-14, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 88-15.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
stock of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
at 863-71 East 93rd Street, 1st floor
and repealing Resolution No. 1490-14,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of stock of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to Samia, Inc.,
DBA Convenience Deli, 863-71 East
93rd Street, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio 44108, Permanent No. 7702571
by Resolution No. 1490-14 adopted by
the Council on November 10, 2014;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to Samia, Inc.,
DBA Convenience Deli, 863-71 East
93rd Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44108, Permanent No. 7702571, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1490-14, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 89-15.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit at 1301 East 9th Street,
BU 600 North Courtyard and repealing
Resolution No. 1475-14, objecting to
said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
Usha Babu, LLC, DBA Café Sausalito, 1301 East 9th Street, BU 600
North Courtyard, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 9177065 by
Resolution No. 1475-14 adopted by
the Council on November 10, 2014;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to Usha
Babu, LLC, DBA Café Sausalito, 1301
East 9th Street, BU 600 North Courtyard, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 9177065, be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1475-14, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 90-15.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 2044 West 65th Street and
repealing Resolution No. 1535-14,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to West 65th
Street Food & More, LLC, DBA West
65th Market, 2044 West 65th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 9555106 by Resolution No.
1535-14 adopted by the Council on
November 17, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

84

January 28, 2015
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to West 65th Street
Food & More, LLC, DBA West 65th
Market, 2044 West 65th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number
9555106, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 153514, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
Res. No. 91-15.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 1163
East 123rd Street and repealing Resolution No. 861-14, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 123 Food Mart, Inc., DBA
USA Food Mart, 1163 East 123rd
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number 6549205 by Resolution No. 861-14, adopted by the Council on July 16, 2014; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 123 Food Mart, Inc., DBA USA
Food Mart, 1163 East 123rd Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent
Number 6549205, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
861-14, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.

January 28, 2015
Res. No. 93-15.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution Objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 6506 Fleet
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Division of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor
Permit
from
6506
Fleet
Avenue, LLC, 6506 Fleet Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 7638470 to SAS Grocery, Inc.,
DBA Mr. Z, 6506 Fleet Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 7748295; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Division of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Superintendent of Liquor Control within 30
days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from 6506 Fleet Avenue, LLC, 6506
Fleet Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 7638470 to SAS
Grocery, Inc., DBA Mr. Z, 6506 Fleet
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 7748295; and requests
the Superintendent of the Division of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
16. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1470-14.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the renewal of Sections 675A.01
through 675A.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 with
no further set expiration, relating to
street performers.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1510-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Relations to apply for and accept a grant
from Cuyahoga County Juvenile
Court to conduct the 2015 Youth Community Diversion Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Relations Board, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1513-14.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to apply for
and accept a grant from the Cuyahoga County Department of Public
Safety and Justice Services for the FY
2014 Cleveland Domestic Violence
Program; and to enter into one or
more contracts with Cuyahoga County and other entities to implement the
program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1536-14.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 348.01, relating to the
Urban Overlay District; and to name
Chapter 348 “Form Based Districts”.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
by
Committees
on
recommended
Development Planning and Sustainability, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In the title, line 4, after “Urban”
insert “Form”.

85

11
2. In Section 1, line 3; and in line
4, strike “Overlay (UO)” and insert
“Form Overlay (UF Overlay)” in
both places.
3. In Section 1, at new Section
348.01(a), line 2; in new Section
348.01(b), lines 1, 2 and 4; in new
Section 348.01(c), lines 1, 2, and 3;
and in new Section 348.01(e), line 2,
strike “UO” in all places and insert
“UF Overlay”.
4. In Section 1, at new Section
348.01(e), insert new subdivision (3)
to read as follows:
“(3) Gas station pump islands are
prohibited;”
and to reletter existing subdivisions (3) and (4) to new “(4)” and
“(5)”.
5. In Section 1, at new Section
348.01(f) at “Building Configuration”, at “Ground floor Non-residential spaces”, after “Each space shall
provide a main pedestrian entrance
to primary street frontage” add “and
shall be recessed so not to swing
over the public right-of-way or patio
space”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 19-15.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to make alterations and modifications in Contract No. CT 2004 PI
2013-18 with Hooper Corporation for
the Lake Road Improvement for
Phase 3 of the Substation and Distribution Expansion Project, for the
Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Utilities, Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, in the last line, at the
end, after “58 SF 230.” insert “(RQS
2004, RL 2014-150)”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
16. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 16.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Polensek, the absence of Council
Member TJ Dow is hereby authorized. Seconded by Council Member
Conwell.
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:48 p.m. to meet on Monday, February 2, 2015, at 7:00 p.m. in the
Council Chamber.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

The City Record

12
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

Quest Mechanical Corp.
(CSB/FBE)

January 28, 2015
$118,570.00
10.29%

Atlas Crane & Rigging,
Inc.

$

2,500.00
0.22%

Zenith Systems, LLC

$

2,500.00
0.22%

Jacco & Associates, Inc.

$

2,500.00
0.22%

Facilitec, LLC

$

2,500.00
0.22%

January 21, 2015
The Regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, January 21,
2015 at 10:39 a.m. with Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Director
Langhenry,
Director/Interim
Director
Dumas,
Directors
Smith,
Cox,
Parrilla,
McGrath, Acting Director Cosgrove,
Directors
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and O’Leary.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Melissa Burrows, Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
Matthew Spronz, Director, Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects.
Deborah Midgett, Acting Commissioner, Division of Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted.
Resolution No. 17-15.
By Interim Director Dumas.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Energy Mechanical Corp.
for an estimated quantity of labor
and
materials
for
maintenance,
repair, enhancement and/or replacement of heating, ventilation and air
conditioning systems, bid items 1.011.06, 1.08 and 1.09, for the various
divisions of the Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two
years starting upon the later of the
execution of a contract or the day
following expiration of the currently effective contract for the goods
or
services,
with
two
one-year
options
to
renew,
received
on
November 14, 2014 under the authority of Ordinance No. 1340-13, passed
November 11, 2013, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $1,152,700.00 (2%,
30 Days), is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Public
Utilities
is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services necessary for the specified
items.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all the City’s requirements for such goods and/or services, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
following
subcontractors
by
the
Energy Mechanical Corp. for the
above-mentioned
service
is
approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

Lakeside Supply Co.
(CSB)

WORK
PERCENTAGE

$118,570.00
10.29%

Honeywell International,
Inc.
$

2,500.00
0.22%

Siemens Building
Technologies, Inc.

$

8,500.00
0.74%

Wadsworth Slawson
Northeast

$

2,500.00
0.22%

Yeas: Director Langhenry, Director/Interim Director Dumas, Directors Smith, Cox, Parrilla, McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 18-15.
By Interim Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on November 14,
2014 or labor and materials for
maintenance, repair, enhancement
and/or replacement of heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems, bid item 1.07 for the Divisions
of Water, Water Pollution Control,
and Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 1340-13,
passed November 11, 2013, are rejected.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Director/Interim Director Dumas, Directors Smith, Cox, Parrilla, McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 19-15.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Action Automatics, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of parts to maintain and repair automatic doors,
including labor and installation, if
necessary, all items, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control, for a period of one year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, with one one-year
option to renew, received on December 5, 2014, under the authority of
Section 181.101(a)(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $47,428.50,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services specified.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the City’s requirements
for
the
goods
and/or.
services,

86

whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Director/Interim Director Dumas, Directors Smith, Cox, Parrilla, McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 20-15.
By Director Spronz.
Whereas, Resolution No. 547-14,
adopted by this Board of Control on
December 10, 2014, under the authority of Ordinance No. 734-14 passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
on June 9, 2014 authorized the Director of Capital Projects to enter into
contract with Richard L. Bowen and
Associates, Inc. to provide professional architectural/engineering services for the Rehabilitation and New
Construction of Public Facilities for
Public Works, Public Safety, and
Public Health, Design Package 4:
New City Kennel in the aggregate
amount of $492,200.00, and approved
various sub consultants ; and
Whereas, Richard L. Bowen and
Associates, Inc. has requested the
City’s consent to remove and to add
certain firms as sub consultants;
now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that Resolution No. 547-14, adopted
by this Board on December 10, 2014
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to enter into contract with
Richard L. Bowen and Associates,
Inc. to provide professional archiservices
for
tectural/engineering
the Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public Facilities for
Public Works, Public Safety, and
Public Health, Design Package 4:
New City Kennel, is amended by
deleting “Pardo Consultants Inc.” as
an approved sub consultant and by
adding the following as approved
sub consultants:
Sandhu and Associates, Inc.
CSB/MBE — $45,000.00(9.143%)
Coleman Systems, Inc.
CSB/MBE — $13,529.00(2.749%)
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Director/Interim Director Dumas, Directors Smith, Cox, Parrilla, McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 21-15.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 012-09-109 located at 4596 Fulton
Road; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and

The City Record

January 28, 2015
Whereas, Cheryl L. Truppo and
Arnold J. Truppo, III have proposed
to the City to purchase and develop
the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has either approved the
proposed sale or has not disapproved or requested a hold of the
proposed sale within 45 days of notification of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Cheryl L. Truppo
and Arnold J. Truppo, III for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 012-09-109 located at 4596
Fulton Road, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $200.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Director Langhenry, Director/Interim Director Dumas, Directors Smith, Cox, Parrilla, McGrath,
Acting Director Cosgrove, Directors
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
O’Leary.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015
9:30 A.M.
POSTPONED FROM
JANUARY 26, 2015
Calendar No. 14-248: 3219 Detroit
Avenue (Ward 3)
3219 Detroit LLC, owner, proposes
to erect a new 60 unit apartment
building in a B1 and D2 Local Retail
Business District and a Pedestrian
Overlay District. The owner appeals
for relief from the following sections of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 325.03 which states that
the minimum area required for an
off-street
parking
space
is
180
square feet.
2. Section 353.01 which states that
in a 2 Height District the maximum
height of a building shall not
exceed 60 feet and 68 feet and 6
inches are proposed.
3.
Section
343.23(g)(1)
which
states that no building shall be setback more than 5 feet in a Pedestrian Retail Overlay District.
4. Section 355.04 which states that
in a ‘B’ Area District the maximum
floor area shall not exceed
the
total lot area; in this case 15,437
square feet. In a ‘D’ Area District
the maximum floor area shall not
exceed the total lot area; in this
case 30,875 square feet.
The proposed total floor area is 77,525
square feet.
5. Section 357.05 which states that
a five foot side yard is required.
6.
Section
357.08(b)(2)
which
states that the rear yard shall not
be less than 20 feet nor less than
the height of the main building.
(Filed December 11, 2014)
First postponement made at the
request of the City in order to repost
an amended adjudication.

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2015
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 14-254: 1130 Ivanhoe
Road (Ward 10)
1130 Ivanhoe Rd. Group LLC.,
owner,
proposes
to
remove
the
required seven foot high wall for a
legal,
non-conforming
yard
for
shredding, storage, and processing
of debris and scrap (variance granted in BZA Calendar No. 13-199) and
replace with an earthen mound in a
B3
Semi-Industry
District.
The
owner appeals for relief from Section 345.04(a)(3) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances which states
that an open yard storage of used
materials must be enclosed with a
minimum seven foot high solid
masonry wall or non-transparent
fence. No elevation plan or details
on drainage, water runoff control,
slope, materials, plantings, or any
other
characteristic
of
proposed
mound submitted. (Filed December
29, 2014)

87

13
POSTPONED FROM
JANUARY 5, 2015
Calendar No. 14-205: 5605 Detroit
Avenue (Ward 15)
Muhammad Riaz, owner, proposes
to change use of a 2 story boarding
house to a convenience store with
no use on the second floor on a corner parcel located in a C2 Local
Retail Business District. The owner
appeals for relief from the strict
application of Section 352.07(b) of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances
which states that a determination
by the Board of Zoning Appeals is
required prior to issuing a Building
Permit or Certificate of Occupancy
for any change of use when the proposed site is not in conformance
with applicable landscape regulations. Pursuant to Section 352.08352.12 an eight foot wide landscape
transition strip providing 75% year
round opacity is required in the rear
of the lot where it abuts a Two-Family Residential District and a six
foot wide landscape frontage strip
providing 50% year round opacity is
required where the parking lot
abuts West 57th Street and no landscaping is proposed. (Filed October
14, 2014 - No Testimony)
Second postponement made at the
request of the appellant. First postponement was made at the request
of
the
councilman
for
further
review.
Calendar No. 14-233: 2501 Thurman
Avenue (Ward 3)
6603 Cedar Inc., owner, proposes to
erect a new 18' - 8" x 38' single
family townhouse on a parcel located in a B1 Two-Family Residential
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 349.07(a) which states
that off-street parking space shall
be properly graded and drained
within the lot.
2. Section 349.07(c) which states
that a driveway used to provide
accessibility to accessory off-street
parking spaces shall be arranged to
minimize traffic congestion.
3. Section 353.02(b) which states
that the maximum height allowed is
35 feet and 40' - 8" are proposed.
4. Section 355.04 (b) which states
that the minimum required lot width
is 40 feet and 23' - 8" are proposed.
5. Section 355.04(b) which states
that the minimum required lot area
is 4,800 square feet and 2,508 square
feet are proposed.
6.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the required rear yard is
40 feet and 20 feet are proposed.
7.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10 feet from a
main building on an adjoining lot
within a Residence District and 0'
are proposed.
8.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the minimum required
interior yard is 3 feet and 0' are
proposed, nor shall both interior side
yards be less than 10' on the same
premises and 3 feet are proposed.
9. Section 358.03(a) which states
that fence located parallel to a driveway are required to be 75% open
and a 4 foot solid masonry fence is
proposed. (Filed November 20, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-234: 2503 Thurman
Avenue (Ward 3)
6603 Cedar Inc., owner, proposes to
erect a new 18' - 8" x 38' single

14
family townhouse on a parcel located in a B1 Two-Family Residential
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 349.07(a) which states
that off-street parking space shall
be properly graded and drained
within the lot.
2. Section 349.07(c) which states
that a driveway used to provide
accessibility to accessory off-street
parking spaces shall be arranged to
minimize traffic congestion.
3. Section 353.02(b) which states
that the maximum height allowed is
35 feet and 40' - 8" are proposed.
4. Section 355.04(b) which states
that the minimum required lot width
is 40 feet and 18' - 8" are proposed.
5. Section 355.04(b) which states
that the minimum required lot area
is 4,800 square feet and 1429 square
feet are proposed.
6.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the required rear yard is
40 feet and 20 feet are proposed.
7.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10 feet from a
main building on an adjoining lot
within a Residence District and 0'
are proposed.
8.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the minimum required
interior yard is 3 feet and 0' are
proposed, nor shall both interior side
yards be less than 10' on the same
premises and 0' feet are proposed.
9. Section 358.03(a) which states
that fence located parallel to a driveway are required to be 75% open
and a 4 foot solid masonry fence is
proposed. (Filed November 20, 2014)
Calendar No. 14-235: 2505 Thurman
Avenue (Ward 3)
6603 Cedar Inc., owner, proposes to
erect a new 18' - 8" x 38' single
family townhouse on a parcel located in a B1 Two-Family Residential
District. The owner appeals for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 349.07(a) which states
that off-street parking space shall
be properly graded and drained
within the lot.
2. Section 349.07(c) which states
that a driveway used to provide
accessibility to accessory off-street
parking spaces shall be arranged to
minimize traffic congestion.
3. Section 353.02(b) which states
that the maximum height allowed is
35 feet and 40' - 8" are proposed.
4. Section 355.04 (b) which states
that the minimum required lot width
is 40 feet and 23' - 8" are proposed.
5. Section 355.04(b) which states
that the minimum required lot area
is 4,800 square feet and 2,508 square
feet are proposed.
6.
Section
357.08(b)(1)
which
states that the required rear yard is
40 feet and 20 feet are proposed.
Section
357.09(2)(A)
which
7.
states that no building shall be
erected less than 10 feet from a
main building on an adjoining lot
within a Residence District and 0'
are proposed.
8.
Section
357.09(2)(B)
which
states that the minimum required
interior yard is 3 feet and 0' are
proposed, nor shall both interior side
yards be less than 10' on the same
premises and 3 feet are proposed.
Section 358.03(a) which states that
fence located parallel to a driveway
are required to be 75% open and a

The City Record

January 28, 2015

4 foot solid masonry fence is proposed. (Filed November 20, 2014)
First postponement made at the
request of the development corporation to allow time for a block club
meeting.
Calendar No. 14-236: 3401 Denison
Avenue (Ward 12)
George Sevastos, owner, proposes
to re-establish use as motor vehicle
sales in a C1 Multi-Family Residential District. The owner appeals for
relief from the following sections of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances:
1. Section 337.07 which states that
in a Multi-Family Residential District motor vehicle sales facility is
not permitted.
2. Section 352.09 which states that
an
8'
wide
transition
strip
is
required along all sides where the
lot abuts a Multi-Family Residential
District.
3. Section 349.04(f) which states
that the customer parking area must
be equal to 25% of the total lot area
and none is shown.
4. Section 359.02(a) which states
that a nonconforming use that has
been discontinued shall not thereafter be returned to such a nonconforming use. (Filed November 21,
2014)
First postponement made at the
request of the development corporation to allow for time for a community meeting.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2015
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
26, 2015 the following appeals were
scheduled for hearing before the
Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 14-214: 1020 East 185th
Street
William Dagg, owner, proposes to
expand existing parking lot on an
irregular shaped parcel located in
an A1 One-Family Residential District and C1 Local Retail Business
District.

square foot, 66 unit apartment building with an accessory 21 space parking lot on a 53,775 square foot parcel located in a B1 Local Retail
Business District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

None.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 13-253: MWTP LLC
4600 West 160th Street. Postponed
to March 2, 2015.
Calendar No. 14-248: 3219 Detroit
LLC
3219 Detroit Avenue. Postponed to
February 9, 2015.
The following appeals were heard
at the Board of Zoning Appeals on
Tuesday, January 20, 2015, and the
decisions
were
adopted
and
approved on Monday, January 26,
2015:
The
following
APPROVED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 14-240: 5901 Franklin
Boulevard
Jon B. Post, owner, proposes to
establish use of first floor of front
building on lot as an antique shop
in a Two Family Residential District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
Calendar No. 14-250: 1230 West 58th
Street
Breakwater Bluffs, LLC., owner,
proposes to establish use as a parking and erect a parking garage on
a parcel located in a C2 Multi-Family Residential District.
Calendar No. 14-255: 7312 Detroit
Avenue
Howard Grandon, owner, proposes
to renovate basement and first floor
of vacant retail space, in mixed use
building containing four dwelling
units on the second floor, for establishment of bar/restaurant in a C2
Local Retail Business District and a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District.
Calendar No. 14-256: 13205 Miles
Road
Union Miles Development Corp.,
owner, and Cleveland Housing Network, prospective purchaser, propose to construct a 4 story, 51,390

88

DATE OF PUBLIC NOTICE:
JANUARY 6, 2015
OHIO ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY,
DIVISION OF SURFACE WATER

NOTICE OF RECEIPT OF
401 APPLICATION AND
PUBLIC HEARING
Public notice is hereby given that
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency (Ohio EPA) Division of Surface Water (DSW) has received an
application for, and has begun to
consider whether to issue or deny, a
Clean Water Act Section 401 water
quality certification for a project to
perform the annual maintenance
dredging in the Cleveland Harbor
Federal navigation channels. The

January 28, 2015
application was submitted by the
U.S.
Army
Corps
of
Engineers
(USACE),
Buffalo
District.
This
year’s dredging will take place
within the Cuyahoga River, and in
Cleveland Harbor, which is located
at the mouth of the Cuyahoga River.
The Buffalo District Corps of Engineers Public Notice Number for this
project is CLEVELAND-15. The Ohio
EPA ID Number for this project is
144574.
As required by the Anti-degradation Rule, 3745-1-05, of the Ohio
Administrative Code (OAC), three
alternatives have been submitted for
the project. The applicant’s proposed
preferred alternative, if approved,
would entail the dredging of an estimated 475,000 cubic yards of material, with placement of 295,000 cubic
yards of the dredged material at the
existing Cleveland Harbor CDFs
and 180,000 cubic yards going to a
new open-lake disposal area in Lake
Erie (CLA-1). The applicant’s proposed minimal degradation alternative, if approved, would entail the
dredging of an estimated 225,000
cubic yards of material, with placement of 45,000 cubic yards of the
dredged material at the existing
Cleveland Harbor CDFs and 180,000
cubic yards going to a new openlake disposal areas in Lake Erie
(CLA-1). The applicant’s proposed
non-degradation
alternative,
if
approved, would have no direct
impacts on waters of the state.
Discharges from the activity, if
approved, would result in degradation to, or lowering of, the water
quality of the Cuyahoga River and
Lake Erie. Ohio EPA will review
the application, and decide whether
to grant or deny the application, in
accordance with OAC Chapters 37451 and 3745-32. In accordance with
OAC rule 3745-1-05, an anti-degradation review of the application will
be
conducted
before
deciding
whether to allow a lowering of
water quality. All three proposed
alternatives will be considered during the review process. No exclusions or waivers, as outlined by OAC
rule 3745-1-05, apply or may be
granted.
Starting January 6, 2015, copies of
the application and technical support information may be inspected
on Ohio EPA-DSW website:
www.epa.ohio.gov/dsw
Ohio EPA will hold a public information session and public hearing
relative to issues of lower water
quality on February 24, 2015 at 6:00
p.m. at the Cleveland Metroparks’
Watershed Stewardship Center at
West Creek, 2277 West Ridgewood
Drive, Parma, OH 44134. The public
hearing will end when all interested parties have had an opportunity
to provide testimony related to the
project.
All interested persons are entitled
to attend or be represented and give
written or oral comments on the proposed project. The purpose of the
hearing is to obtain additional information that will be considered by
Ohio EPA prior to any further
action on the application.
Ohio EPA will continue to accept
written comments on the application
through the close of business on
March 3, 2015. Comments received
after this date may not be consid-

The City Record
ered as part of the official record of
the hearing. Anyone may submit
written comments or requests to be
placed on a mailing list for information by writing to: Ohio EPADSW, Attention: Permits Processing
Unit, P.O. Box 1049, Columbus, Ohio
43216-1049.
_____
January 14, 2015, January 21, 2015,
January 28, 2015,

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2015
File No. 10-15 — Auto, Truck and
Equipment
Glass
Replacement
and Related Parts, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department
of
Public
Works, as authorized by Section
131.64 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.

89

15
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015 AT 10:00
A.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
ROOM
8,
601
LAKESIDE
OHIO
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
44114.
File No. 15-15 — Purchase of Wood
Poles, Crossarms and Accessories,
for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.26 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
AT 11:30 A.M. THE TOM L.
JOHNSON
BUILDING,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 16-15 — Labor and Materials to Paint Poles and Other
Streetside Elements, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
AT 10:00 A.M. THE TOM L.
JOHNSON
BUILDING,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
January 21, 2015 and January 28, 2015
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2015
File No. 11-15 — City Wide Tree
Removal and Pruning Initiative,
for the Division of Park Maintenance,
Department
of
Public
Works, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015 AT 11:00
A.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
ROOM
8,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
January 21, 2015 and January 28, 2015
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2015
File No. 14-15 — Various Meyer
Snow Plow and Spreader Equipment Parts and Labor, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public
Works, as authorized by Section
131.64 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 2015 AT 10:30
A.M. CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
8,
601
LAKESIDE
ROOM
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
January 21, 2015 and January 28, 2015
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2015
File No. 9-15 — Disposal of Debris
at Landfills, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance

The City Record

16
No. 849-14, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, August
20, 2014.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
AT 11:00 A.M. CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
2ND FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 12-15 — 2015-2018 Department of Finance Citywide Sales
of Scrap Metal Materials, for the
various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Section 181.18 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
AT 11:00 A.M. THE CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM
128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
January 21, 2015 and January 28, 2015

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2015
File No. 8-15 — Restoration of Pavement for Water Mains and Appurtenances, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 315-13, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, April 8,
2013.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2015
AT 10:00 A.M. CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
2ND FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.

January 28, 2015
THE CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
ROOM
514,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
January 21, 2015 and January 28, 2015

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

NONE
File No. 13-15 — Purchase of Various Types of Safety Equipment
Required for OSHA/PERRP Compliance, for the various Divisions
of City Government, Department
of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1524-14, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 24, 2014.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING TUESDAY,
FEBRUARY 10, 2015 AT 3:30 P.M.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, January 26, 2015
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Conwell, Keane,
Mitchell, Pruitt, Zone.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

AIDS
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, (2015) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXI —
Community Development Department — Grants (O 76-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Labor and materials for maintenance, repair, enhancement and/or replacement of heating,
ventilation and air conditioning systems, bid item 1.07 — per Ord. 1340-13 —
all bids rejected — Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 18-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Fulton Road, 4596 (Ward 13) — PPN 012-09-109 — Cheryl L. Truppo and Arnold J.Truppo III
(BOC Res. 21-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Fulton Road, 4596 (Ward 13) — PPN 012-09-109 — Cheryl L. Truppo and Arnold J.Truppo III
(BOC Res. 21-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Parts to maintain and repair automatic doors, including labor and installation, all items —
per C.O. Sec. 181.101(a)(2) to Action Automatics, Inc. (BOC Res. 19-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Architectural/ Engineering Services for the Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities for Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health, Design Package 4: New
City Kennel — amend BOC Res. 547-14 — Depts. of Public Works, Public Safety,
and Public Health (BOC Res. 20-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

90

January 28, 2015

The City Record

17

Board of Control — Public Health Department
Architectural/ Engineering Services for the Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities for Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health, Design Package 4: New
City Kennel — amend BOC Res. 547-14 — Depts. of Public Works, Public Safety (BOC Res. 20-15) . . . . . . . . . . 86

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Architectural/ Engineering Services for the Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities for Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health, Design Package 4: New
City Kennel — amend BOC Res. 547-14 — Depts. of Public Works, Public Health
(BOC Res. 20-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Labor and materials for maintenance, repair, enhancement and/or replacement of heating,
ventilation and air conditioning systems, bid items 1.01-1.06, 1.08, 1.09 — per Ord.
1340-13 to Energy Mechanical Corp. (BOC Res. 17-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Labor and materials for maintenance, repair, enhancement and/or replacement of heating,
ventilation and air conditioning systems, bid item 1.07 — per Ord. 1340-13 —
all bids rejected — Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control, Cleveland Public
Power (BOC Res. 18-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Architectural/ Engineering Services for the Rehabilitation and New Construction of Public
Facilities for Public Works, Public Safety, and Public Health, Design Package 4: New
City Kennel — amend BOC Res. 547-14 — Depts. of Public Safety, and Public
Health (BOC Res. 20-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Labor and materials for maintenance, repair, enhancement and/or replacement of heating,
ventilation and air conditioning systems, bid items 1.01-1.06, 1.08, 1.09 — per Ord.
1340-13 to Energy Mechanical Corp. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 17-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Labor and materials for maintenance, repair, enhancement and/or replacement of heating,
ventilation and air conditioning systems, bid item 1.07 — per Ord. 1340-13 —
all bids rejected — Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control, Cleveland Public
Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 18-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Parts to maintain and repair automatic doors, including labor and installation, all items —
per C.O. Sec. 181.101(a)(2) to Action Automatics, Inc. — Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 19-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

Board of Control — Water Division
Labor and materials for maintenance, repair, enhancement and/or replacement of heating,
ventilation and air conditioning systems, bid item 1.07 — per Ord. 1340-13 —
all bids rejected — Divisions of Water Pollution Control, Cleveland Public Power,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 18-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Labor and materials for maintenance, repair, enhancement and/or replacement of heating,
ventilation and air conditioning systems, bid item 1.07 — per Ord. 1340-13 —
all bids rejected — Divisions of Water, Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 18-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

Board of Education
Supporting State Board of Education ban on discrimination against school personnel because
of sexual orientation (R 73-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Detroit Avenue, 3219, (Ward 3) – 3219 Detroit LLC, owner — appeal postponed to 2/9/15 on
1/26/15 (Cal. 14-248). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 7312, (Ward 15) – Howard Gurandon, owner — appeal heard on 1/26/15
(Cal. 14-255) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th Street, 1020, (Ward 8) – William Dagg, owner — appeal heard on 1/20/15
(Cal. 14-214) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 5901, (Ward 15) – Jon B. Post, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/26/15 (Cal. 14-240). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 160th Street, 4600, (Ward 18) – MWTP LLC, owner — appeal postponed to 3/2/15
on 1/20/15 (Cal. 13-253) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 58th Street, 1230, (Ward 15) – Breakwater Bluffs, LLC, owner — appeal heard on
1/26/15 (Cal. 14-250). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

91

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88

The City Record

18

January 28, 2015

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Ivanhoe Road, 1130, (Ward 10) – 1130 Ivanhoe Rd. Group LLC, owner — appeal to be heard
on 2/17/15 (Cal. 14-254) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87

Bridges
City leasing pedestrian and bicycle bridge from Cuyahoga County — RNC — Works Department
(O 97-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Capital Projects
Amend Ord. 835-14 — East 9th St., Superior Ave., and Walnut Ave. —
encroach into right-of-way -permanent streetscape improvements — 1717 East 9th LLC —
City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 75-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
National Multiple Sclerosis Society Walk — permit — April 18 — The National Multiple
Sclerosis Society (Ward 03) (O 83-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
St. Malachi’s run — permit — March 14 — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03) (O 82-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

City of Cleveland Bids
2015-2018 Department of Finance Citywide Sales of Scrap Metal Materials — Department of
Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.18 — bid due February 13, 2015 (advertised 1/21/2015
and 1/28/2015) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auto, Truck and Equipment Glass Replacement and Related Parts — Department of Public
Works — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 — bid due
February 6, 2015 (advertised 1/21/2015 and 1/28/2015) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City Wide Tree Removal and Pruning Initiative — Department of Public Works — Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due February 11, 2015
(advertised 1/21/2015 and 1/28/2015). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Disposal of Debris at Landfills — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per Ord. 849-14 — bid due February 13, 2015 (advertised 1/21/2015 and 1/28/2015) . . . . . . . . .
Labor and Materials to Paint Poles and Other Streetside Elements — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid
due February 6, 2015 (advertised 1/21/2015 and 1/28/2015). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase of Various Types of Safety Equipment Required for OSHA/PERRP Compliance —
Department of Finance — per Ord. 1524-14 — bid due February 18, 2015
(advertised 1/21/2015 and 1/28/2015). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase of Wood Poles, Crossarms and Accessories — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Cleveland Public Power — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — bid due February 6,
2015 (advertised 1/21/2015 and 1/28/2015) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Restoration of Pavement for Water Mains and Appurtenances — Department of
Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 315-13 — bid due February 18, 2015
(advertised 1/21/2015 and 1/28/2015). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Various Meyer Snow Plow and Spreader Equipment Parts and Labor — Department of
Public Works — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 — bid
due February 12, 2015 (advertised 1/21/2015 and 1/28/2015) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

City Planning Commission
Amend Ord. 835-14 — East 9th St., Superior Ave., and Walnut Ave. —
encroach into right-of-way -permanent streetscape improvements — 1717 East 9th LLC
(Ward 03) (O 75-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Urban Overlay District — enact Section 348.01 (O 1536-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Authority (CMHA)
Community Development to be a co-applicant & co-Grantee with Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority — Accept HUD funding to implement the Choice Neighborhoods Implementation
Grant (O 78-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Codified Ordinances
Renew Sections 675A.01 through 675A.03 — Street Performers (O 1470-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Urban Overlay District — enact Section 348.01 — City Planning Commission (O 1536-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association (OPBA) — Security Officers — amend Section 14 of
Ord. 385-14, as amended — Finance Department — Human Resource Department
(O 77-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Communications
Aspen Place, West 61st Street and Lorain Avenue — residential rental development project —
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(Ward 15) (F 95-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

92

The City Record

January 28, 2015

19

SID Network of Ohio, for Safe Sleep — “Baby Shower” events — $ 600.00 Grant — Health
Department (F 66-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
The Lofts at Lion Mills, West 25th St., 3256 — residential rental development project —
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(Ward 14) (F 94-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

Community Development
Co-applicant & co-Grantee with Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — CMHA to accept
HUD funding to implement the Choice Neighborhoods Implementation Grant (O 78-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, (2015) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXI — Grants
(O 76-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG)
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, (2015) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program — Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXI —
Community Development Department — Grants (O 76-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Community Relations
Youth Community Diversion Program, 2015 — Juvenile Court — Cuyahoga County — Grants
(O 1510-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Concession Agreements
Operation of concession stands at Gordon Park and Brookside Park — Works Department (O 80-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Pay telephones at various City facilities (O 79-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Condolences
Fedikovich, Alec (R 103-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ireland, III, James D. (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . .
Jones, Artelia (R 105-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lane, Larry R. (R 101-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McDowell, Sr., Charlie Stephen (R 102-15) .
Patrick, Henrietta (Jackson) (R 98-15) . . .
Powell, Polly (R 99-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ruffin, Lera Pauline (R 109-15) . . . . . . . . . .
Walker, Jr., Jerry M. (R 100-15) . . . . . . . . . .
Wilson, Oleatha (R 104-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

78
78
78
78
78
78
78
78
78
78

Contracts
Computer hardware and software, including printers, parts, supplies, peripheral devices
(O 81-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Lake Road Improvement for Phase 3 of the Substation and Distribution Expansion Project —
Contract No. CT 2004 PI 2013-18 -Hooper Corporation — Utilities Department
(O 19-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Cuyahoga County
City leasing pedestrian and bicycle bridge from Cuyahoga County — RNC — Works Department
(O 97-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program (FY 2014) — Cuyahoga County Justice Services — Law
Department (O 1513-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Youth Community Diversion Program, 2015 — Juvenile Court — Grants (O 1510-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
Aspen Place, West 61st Street and Lorain Avenue — residential rental development project —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency (Ward 15) (F 95-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
The Lofts at Lion Mills, West 25th St., 3256 — residential rental development project —
Ohio Housing Finance Agency (Ward 14) (F 94-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

Encroachments
Amend Ord. 835-14 — East 9th St., Superior Ave., and Walnut Ave. — right-of-way -permanent
streetscape improvements — 1717 East 9th LLC — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(O 75-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Finance Department
Computer hardware and software, including printers, parts, supplies, peripheral devices —
contracts (O 81-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

93

The City Record

20

January 28, 2015

Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association (OPBA) — Security Officers — approve collective
bargaining agreement — amend Section 14 of Ord. 385-14, as amended — Human Resource
Department (O 77-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Pay telephones at various City facilities — concession agreement (O 79-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Fire Division
Coughlin, John P. — oath of office — Battalion Chief — Safety Department (F 61-15) . . . .
Diteodoro, Vince J. — oath of office — Battalion Chief — Safety Department (F 62-15) . . .
Engelhart, Bradley J. — oath of office — Battalion Chief — Safety Department (F 63-15) .
Gorey, III, William F. — oath of office — Battalion Chief — Safety Department (F 64-15).
Thomas, James D. — oath of office — Battalion Chief — Safety Department (F 65-15) . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

77
77
77
77
77

Grants
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program (FY 2014) — Cuyahoga County Justice Services — Law
Department (O 1513-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development to be a co-applicant & co-Grantee with Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority — CMHA to accept HUD funding to implement the Choice Neighborhoods
Implementation Grant (O 78-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program, (2015) — Emergency Solutions Grant
Program Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program — Year XXXXI — Community
Development Department (O 76-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SID Network of Ohio, for Safe Sleep — “Baby Shower” events — $ 600.00 Grant — Health
Department (F 66-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Youth Community Diversion Program, 2015 — Juvenile Court — Cuyahoga County (O 1510-14) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 85

. . . . . . . . . . . 79

. . . . . . . . . . . 78
. . . . . . . . . . . 77
. . . . . . . . . . . 85

Health Department
SID Network of Ohio, for Safe Sleep — “Baby Shower” events — $ 600.00 Grant (F 66-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

Housing And Urban Development (HUD)
Community Development to be a co-applicant & co-Grantee with Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority — CMHA to accept HUD funding to implement the Choice Neighborhoods
Implementation Grant (O 78-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Human Resources Department
Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association (OPBA) — Security Officers — approve collective
bargaining agreement — amend Section 14 of Ord. 385-14, as amended — Finance
Department (O 77-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Leases
City leasing pedestrian and bicycle bridge from Cuyahoga County — RNC — Works Department
(O 97-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Liquor Permits
East 123rd St., 1163 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 861-14 (Ward 09) (R 91-15) .
East 131st St., 4025 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 02) (F 68-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd St., 863-71 (1st fl.) — withdraw objection to transfer of stock — repeal Res.
1490-14 (Ward 09) (R 88-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 9th St., 1301 (BU 600 North Courtyard) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership —
repeal Res. 1475-14 (Ward 03) (R 89-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleet Ave., 6506 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 12) (R 93-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleet Ave., 6506 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 12) (F 67-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Ave., 5741 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 13) (F 71-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Rd., 1295 — objection to transfer of location (Ward 03) (R 85-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Rd., 1295 — transfer of location application (Ward 03) (F 69-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5379 — objection to transfer of location (Ward 10) (R 84-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th St., 3778 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 11) (F 70-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th St., 2044 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1535-14
(Ward 15) (R 90-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th St., 3230 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1136-14 (Ward 03)
(R 86-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1261-65 (1st fl. and patio) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res.
1024-14 (Ward 03) (R 87-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th St., 1382 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 72-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

84
85
77
78
83
77
82
77

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Oath Of Office
Coughlin, John P. — Battalion Chief — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 61-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Diteodoro, Vince J. — Battalion Chief — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 62-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

94

January 28, 2015

The City Record

21

Engelhart, Bradley J. — Battalion Chief — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 63-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Gorey, III, William F. — Battalion Chief — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 64-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Thomas, James D. — Battalion Chief — Fire Division — Safety Department (F 65-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

Ohio House Finance Agency (OHFA)
Aspen Place, West 61st Street and Lorain Avenue — residential rental development project —
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization (Ward 15) (F 95-15) . . . . . . . . . .
EDEN Scattered Site Preservation Initiative Phase II project — Emerald Development and
Economic Network, Inc.’s (EDEN, Inc.’s) — low — income housing tax credits &
additional project funding (Ward 03) (R 74-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Welcome House’s application to the OHFA — low-income housing tax credits for
redevelopment of former Cuyahoga County Archives Bldg., Franklin Blvd., 2905 (Ward
03) (R 92-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Lofts at Lion Mills , West 25th St., 3256 — residential rental development project —
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization (Ward 14) (F 94-15) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

Permits
National Multiple Sclerosis Society Walk — April 18 — The National
Multiple Sclerosis Society (Ward 03) (O 83-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Renew Sections 675A.01 through 675A.03 — Street Performers (O 1470-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
St. Malachi’s run — March 14 — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03) (O 82-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Public Improvements
Amend Ord. 1061-14 — Public Square redevelopment project — traffic
signalization improvements and utility relocations — RNC (O 96-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Lake Road Improvement for Phase 3 of the Substation and Distribution Expansion Project —
Contract No. CT 2004 PI 2013-18 -Hooper Corporation — Utilities Department
(O 19-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Public Works
Amend Ord. 1061-14 — Public Square redevelopment project — traffic
signalization improvements and utility relocations — RNC (O 96-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
City leasing pedestrian and bicycle bridge from Cuyahoga County — RNC (O 97-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Operation of concession stands at Gordon Park and Brookside Park — concession agreements
(O 80-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Races
National Multiple Sclerosis Society Walk — permit — April 18 — The National Multiple
Sclerosis Society (Ward 03) (O 83-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
St. Malachi’s run — permit — March 14 — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03) (O 82-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Recognition
Reddy, Radihka (R 107-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
White House Initiative on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders Region 5 AAPI Community
Listening Session (R 106-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Resolution Of Support
Supporting State Board of Education ban on discrimination against school personnel because
of sexual orientation (R 73-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Supporting Welcome House’s application to the OHFA — low-income housing tax credits for
redevelopment of former Cuyahoga County Archives Bldg., Franklin Blvd., 2905 (Ward
03) (R 92-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Supporting State Board of Education ban on discrimination against school personnel because
of sexual orientation (R 73-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81

Safety Department
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program (FY 2014) — Cuyahoga County Justice Services
Department (O 1513-14) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coughlin, John P. — oath of office — Battalion Chief — Fire Division (F 61-15) . . . . . . .
Diteodoro, Vince J. — oath of office — Battalion Chief — Fire Division (F 62-15) . . . . . .
Engelhart, Bradley J. — oath of office — Battalion Chief — Fire Division (F 63-15) . . . .
Gorey, III, William F. — oath of office — Battalion Chief — Fire Division (F 64-15) . . . .
Thomas, James D. — oath of office — Battalion Chief — Fire Division (F 65-15) . . . . . . .

95

— Law
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

85
77
77
77
77
77

The City Record

22

January 28, 2015

Tax Credits
EDEN Scattered Site Preservation Initiative Phase II project — Emerald Development and
Economic Network, Inc.’s (EDEN, Inc.’s) — Ohio Housing Finance Agency — low — income
housing tax credits & additional project funding (Ward 03) (R 74-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Supporting Welcome House’s application to the OHFA — low-income housing tax credits for
redevelopment of former Cuyahoga County Archives Bldg., Franklin Blvd., 2905 (Ward
03) (R 92-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
The Lofts at Lion Mills , West 25th St., 3256 — residential rental development project —
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(Ward 14) (F 94-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

Utilities Department
Lake Road Improvement for Phase 3 of the Substation and Distribution Expansion Project —
Contract No. CT 2004 PI 2013-18 -Hooper Corporation (O 19-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Ward 01
Fedikovich, Alec — Condolence (R 103-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Ireland, III, James D. — Condolence (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 02
East 131st St., 4025 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 68-15) . . . . . . . . . . .
Ireland, III, James D. — Condolence (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ruffin, Lera Pauline — Condolence (R 109-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting State Board of Education ban on discrimination against school personnel because
of sexual orientation (R 73-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wilson, Oleatha — Condolence (R 104-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 03
Amend Ord. 1061-14 — Public Square redevelopment project — traffic
signalization improvements and utility relocations — RNC (O 96-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Ord. 835-14 — East 9th St., Superior Ave., and Walnut Ave. —
encroach into right-of-way -permanent streetscape improvements — 1717 East 9th LLC —
City Planning Commission (O 75-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City leasing pedestrian and bicycle bridge from Cuyahoga County — RNC — Works Department
(O 97-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 9th St., 1301 (BU 600 North Courtyard) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership —
repeal Res. 1475-14 — liquor permit (R 89-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
EDEN Scattered Site Preservation Initiative Phase II project — Emerald Development and
Economic Network, Inc.’s (EDEN, Inc.’s) — Ohio Housing Finance Agency — low — income
housing tax credits & additional project funding (R 74-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ireland, III, James D. — Condolence (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Multiple Sclerosis Society Walk — permit — April 18 — The National Multiple
Sclerosis Society (O 83-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Rd., 1295 — objection to transfer of location — liquor permit (R 85-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Rd., 1295 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 69-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Malachi’s run — permit — March 14 — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 82-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Welcome House’s application to the OHFA — low-income housing tax credits for
redevelopment of former Cuyahoga County Archives Bldg., Franklin Blvd., 2905
(R 92-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th St., 3230 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1136-14 — liquor permit
(R 86-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1261-65 (1st fl. and patio) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res.
1024-14 — liquor permit (R 87-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th St., 1382 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 72-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

82
83
77
82

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 04
Ireland, III, James D. — Condolence (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Jones, Artelia — Condolence (R 105-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 05
Ireland, III, James D. — Condolence (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 06
Ireland, III, James D. — Condolence (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 07
Ireland, III, James D. — Condolence (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Lane, Larry R. — Condolence (R 101-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

96

January 28, 2015

The City Record

23

Ward 08
Ireland, III, James D. — Condolence (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 09
East 123rd St., 1163 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 861-14 — liquor permit
(R 91-15). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd St., 863-71 (1st fl.) — withdraw objection to transfer of stock — repeal Res.
1490-14 — liquor permit (R 88-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ireland, III, James D. — Condolence (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McDowell, Sr., Charlie Stephen — Condolence (R 102-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 10
Ireland, III, James D. (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Patrick, Henrietta (Jackson) — Condolence (R 98-15) . . . . . . . .
Powell, Polly — Condolence (R 99-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5379 — objection to transfer of location — liquor
Walker, Jr., Jerry M. — Condolence (R 100-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

................
................
................
permit (R 84-15) .
................

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

78
78
78
82
78

Ward 11
Ireland, III, James D. (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
West 117th St., 3778 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 70-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

Ward 12
Fleet Ave., 6506 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 93-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Fleet Ave., 6506 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 67-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Ireland, III, James D. (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 13
Ireland, III, James D. (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Memphis Ave., 5741 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 71-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 14
Ireland, III, James D. (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reddy, Radihka — Recognition (R 107-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Lofts at Lion Mills , West 25th St., 3256 — residential rental development project —
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(F 94-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
White House Initiative on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders Region 5 AAPI Community
Listening Session — Recognition (R 106-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 15
Aspen Place, West 61st Street and Lorain Avenue — residential rental development project —
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization — Ohio Housing Finance Agency
(F 95-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Ireland, III, James D. (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
West 65th St., 2044 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1535-14 —
liquor permit (R 90-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84

Ward 16
Ireland, III, James D. (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

Ward 17
Ireland, III, James D. (R 108-15) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

97

