The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
October the Sixteenth, Two Thousand and Two

Mayor
Jane L. Campbell
President of Council
Frank G. Jackson
Clerk of Council
Valarie J. McCall
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
10
11
13
13
14
15
15
15
16
24
24

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Frank G. Jackson
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed ..........................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell...........................................774 East 131st Street
Roosevelt Coats .........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr........................................4326 Daisy Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
Matthew Zone ..........................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ......................................1278 West 103rd Street
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44108
44112
44119
44105
44113
44109
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Rodney Jenkins, Executive Assistant
David M. McGuirk, Executive Assistant
Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant
Craig Tame, Executive Assistant
Henry Guzman, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officer
DEPT. OF LAW – Subodh Chandra, Director, Galen L. Schuerlein, Acting
Chief Counsel, Room 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Cleo Henderson, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael G. Konicek, Director,
1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John C. Mok, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie
Avenue.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll, Acting Director, Mural
Building, 1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS: Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland
House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
Environment – Willie Bess, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Health – Dr. Wendy Johnson, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – James A. Draper, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police \ Edward F. Lohn, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES –James Glending,
Acting Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.

Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director, 3rd
Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Sharon Dumas, Commissioner.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES –Eduardo A. Romero,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Steven Sims, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Lorna Wisham, Director;
Mayor Jane L. Campbell, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President;
Rev. Earl Preston, Vice President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Secretary;
Members: Diane M. Downing, Matthew Dotson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Betsy Hruby,
Asst. Sec’y.; Robert H. Baker, Director; Council President Frank G.
Jackson.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;
Members; Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver-Washington,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room
516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate
Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Subodh Chandra,
President; Finance Director Ro bert H. Baker, Secretary; Coun cil
President Frank G. Jackson.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law
Director Subodh Chandra; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Subodh
Chandra; Utilities Director Michael G. Konicek; Council President Frank
G. Jackson.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Christopher S. Ronayne,
Director; Anthony J. Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Chairman;
Finance Director Robert H. Baker; Council President Frank G. Jackson;
Councilman Dona Brady; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman;
Earl S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule,
Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLE VE LAND LA ND MARKS CO MMIS S ION – R oo m 51 9 – Ric hard
Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush,
James Gibans, Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen
Schuerlein, Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Dwayne J.
Simpson, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Emanuella Groves
12B
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan–Court Administrator,
Paul J. Mizerak–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Gregory F. Clifford–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 2002

Vol. 89

No. 4636

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2002
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

MOTION

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00
A.M.—Aviation
&
Transportation
Committee:
Westbrook,
Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt, Dolan, Gordon, Reed,
Rybka.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

On the Motion of Council Member
Westbrook, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Coats.

VALARIE J. McCALL
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, O’Malley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Scott, Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00
vices
Zone,
well,

P.M. — Health & Human SerCommittee: Britt, Chairman;
Vice Chairman; Cintron, ConGordon, Scott, Polensek.

1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Scott, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cintron, Jones,
Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka,
Vice
Chairman,
Conwell,
Lewis,
O’Malley, Scott, Westbrook.

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 2017-02.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Mayor’s Emergency
Requisition/Purchase Orders — Willow Street Bridge Repair, Phase ITemporary Repair and Lift. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman; O’Malley, Reed, Sweeney.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

File No. 2018-02.
Re: New Application — 2598330 —
Ezeldean, Inc., d.b.a. Dollar Lots,
7120 Denison Avenue. (Ward 17). Received.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

File No. 2020-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 4683964 — Kitchen Window, Inc., d.b.a. Whitmores Barbeque, 17121 Euclid Avenue. (Ward
10). Received.

______________

Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, October 14, 2002.
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats,
Conwell, Dolan, Gordon, Jackson,
Johnson, Jones, Lewis, O’Malley,
Polensek,
Reed,
Rybka,
Scott,
Sweeney, Westbrook, White, Zone.
Also present were Mayor Campbell, Directors Chandra, Konicek,
Mok, Ricchiuto, Hudecek, Romero,
Sims, Fumich, Taylor, Ronaye and
Wilson,
Acting
Directors
Carrol,
Abouserhal, Schade
and
Velkoff.
Rodney Jenkins, Executive Assistant,
David
McGuirk,
Executive
Assistant, Craig Tame, Executive
Assistant, Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant, Erik Janas, Celeste
Glascow, Director of Communications and Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative
Affairs
Liaison,
John
Goersmeyer and Jeffrey D. Johnson,
Special Assistant were also present.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the Council Meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Pastor
Anthony Singleton of Emmanuel
Christian Church, located at 8201
Superior Avenue in Ward 7. Pledge
of Allegiance.

2255

File No. 2019-02.
Re: New Application — 0134278
Sheree A. Allen, d.b.a. Turps Megabyte, 4139 Lee Road. (Ward 1). Received.

File No. 2021-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 7107955 — RTP Dream Investments, Inc., d.b.a. Variety Beverage, 11824 Lorain Avenue. (Ward
19). Received.
File No 2022-02.
Re: New Application — 5052946 —
Lauren Unlimited Corp., d.b.a. Neighborhood
Market,
11831
Union
Avenue. (Ward 3). Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 2023-02.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties re: PI
#58463B, Triangle Park Site Improvements. Received.
MOTION
File No. 2038-02.
By Council Member Gordon that
pursuant to the Rules of Council,
Rule 12-1 be invoked and the following employees of Cleveland City
Council be officially voted upon as

The City Record

4
official employees of Cleveland City
Council:
Eileen
Flynn,
Maureen
Harper, Debbie Ivy, Robert Ma,
Peter Pudner, Came Rentz, Rebecca
Schaltenbrand,
Dwayne
Simpson,
Teresa
Stevenson,
and
Joseph
Titran. Seconded by Council Member
Sweeney.
Council
President
Jackson
instructed the members of Council to
state the name of the employee
when responding to the roll call. A
roll call ensued for each employee
and the aforementioned employees
received unanimous approval by all
21 members of Council.
Those who voted in the affirmative were Council Members Jackson,
Brady, Britt, Cimperman, Cintron,
Coats,
Conwell,
Dolan,
Gordon,
Johnson, Jones, Lewis, O’Malley,
Polensek,
Reed,
Rybka,
Scott,
Sweeney, Westbrook, White and
Zone.

CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 2039-02—Patsy Williams
Materazzo.
Res. No. 2053-02—M. Thomas Moore.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2040-02 — Ray’s Sausage
Company, Inc.
Res. No. 2041-02—St. John Nepomucene Church.
Res. No. 2042-02—Bishop A. Edward Pevec.
Res. No. 2043-02 — Elder Joseph
Whitthorne.
Res. No. 2044-02—Jeffrey H. Friedman.

October 16, 2002
Res. No. 2045-02 — Jesse O. Anderson.
Res. No. 2046-02—Judge Peter M.
Sikora.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res.
Res.
Res.
Res.
Res.

No.
No.
No.
No.
No.

2047-02—James Gepperth.
2048-02—Dennis McNulty.
2049-02—Dick Russ.
2050-02—Betty Long.
2051-02—Gladys V. Hall.

APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2052-02—Linda L. Miley.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 2024-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make additional appropriations of Seven Hundred Thousand Dollars ($700,000) of
the Enterprise Funds.
Whereas, there is an unappropriated balance in the Enterprise Funds of Seven Hundred Thousand Dollars
($700,000); and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the unappropriated balance in the Enterprise Funds of the City is appropriated as follows,
provided that the Director of Finance obtains an Amended Certificate of Estimated Resources that includes $700,000
in the Enterprise Funds.
ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATAION AND PROPERTIES
Division of Convention Center & Stadium-Convention Center
I Personnel and Related Expenses
II Other Expenses

$
$

700,000
___

$ 700,000

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, & PROPERTIES

$

700,000

$ 700,000

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$

700,000

$ 700,000

Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 2025-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to install carpeting, module wall systems and office furniture, for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts in accordance with
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for

the requirements for the period of
two years of the necessary items of
labor and materials to install carpeting, module wall systems and
office furniture, in the estimated
sum of $375,000.00 to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the various divisions of the Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall
be taken in such manner as to permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be charged

2256

against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify thereon the amount of
the
initial
purchase
thereunder,
which purchase, together with all
subsequent purchases, shall be made
on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies pursuant to
a requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 122450)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.

October 16, 2002
Ord. No. 2026-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary for miscellaneous building maintenance services, for the various divisions of
the Department of Public Utilities,
for a period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts in accordance with
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for the period of
two years of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary for
miscellaneous building maintenance
services, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the various
divisions of the Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a
period less than the specified term
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify thereon the amount of
the
initial
purchase
thereunder,
which purchase, together with all
subsequent purchases, shall be made
on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies pursuant to
a requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 122442)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 2027-02.
By Council Members Lewis, Johnson, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
property adoption agreement with
the Cleveland Clinic Foundation for
improvements to the northeast corner of East 93rd Street and Chester
Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 and
Section 133.24 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is authorized to enter
into a property adoption agreement
with the Cleveland Clinic Foundation to landscape and maintain the
property identified as Permanent
Parcel No 119-08-060 which is located at the northeast corner of East
93rd Street and Chester Avenue. The
Cleveland Clinic Foundation may
make landscaped and/or parking
related improvements to the adopted property which will be used for
the Cleveland Clinic Foundation’s
proposed kindercare project. The
Cleveland Clinic Foundation shall
maintain the adopted property during the term of the property adoption.
Section 2. That this property adoption shall not be construed as a conveyance of any right, title, or interest in public property, but is the
grant of a privilege revocable at the
will of Council.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to accept the gift of any
landscaped and/or parking related
improvements
and
maintenance
made to the adopted property.
Section 4. That the property adoption agreement authorized shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain any additional terms
and conditions necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2028-02.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 133.172 relating to
licensing the image of the Cleveland
Browns Stadium.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns the intellectual property rights
to the image of the Cleveland
Browns Stadium; and
Whereas, the City has received a
request from a manufacturer to use
the image of the Cleveland Browns
Stadium on a Cleveland Browns
throw blanket and pillow and the
City may receive similar requests;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are

2257

5
supplemented by adding new Section 133.172 to read as follows:
Section
133.172
Licensing
the
Image of the Cleveland Browns Stadium
Notwithstanding any provision of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties may issue to any person
or entity a nonexclusive license to
use the image of the Cleveland
Browns Stadium (“Intellectual Property”) for a fee determined by the
Board of Control. Any license issued
shall not be construed to convey any
right, title or interest in the Intellectual Property or in any improvements, changes, and/or modifications to the Intellectual Property.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 2029-02.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of grading and
paving, constructing streets, sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing,
curb ramps, median strips, intersections, utility boxes, casting adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping,
landscaping, installing water and
sewer mains and connections, installing electrical service and connections, streetlighting, and other
related infrastructure improvements
in conjunction with the Hurston
Court/Cliffview West project; and
authorizing the Directors of Community Development, Public Service
or Public Utilities to enter into contract for the making of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is determined to
make the public improvement of
grading and paving, constructing
streets, sidewalks, driveway aprons,
curbing, curb ramps, median strips,
intersections, utility boxes, casting
adjustments, appurtenances, streetscaping,
landscaping,
installing
water and sewer mains and connections, installing electrical service
and connections, streetlighting, and
other related infrastructure improvements
in
conjunction
with
the
Hurston Court/Cliffview West project, for the Departments of Community Development, Public Service
or Public Utilities, by contract duly
let to the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Directors of
Community Development, Public Service or Public Utilities are autho-

6
rized to enter into one or more contracts for the making of the above
public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding upon a unit
basis for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 14 SF 027, 52 SF
001 and 17 SF 008, Request Nos.
125721, 45702 and 103524.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
Public
Utilities,
City
Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
Public
Service,
City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2030-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1119-02,
passed June 17, 2002, relating to contracts with various agencies to provide social service programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1119-02, passed June 17,
2002, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contract with the
following agencies to provide social
service programs:
YOUTH
Alta Social Settlement House
Bellflower Center for Prevention
of Child Abuse, Inc.
Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland
(Broadway)
Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland
(King Kennedy)
Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland
(Mt. Pleasant)
Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland
(West Side)
Brooklyn
Memorial
Community
Youth Center
Catholic Charities Services Corp.
(Martin DePorres Center)
Chorale (The)
Clergy United For Juvenile Justice, Inc.
Cleveland Police Athletic League
Community Relations/Youth at Risk
Cultural and Educational Institute
for Boricua Advancement aka Julia
deBurgos Cultural Arts Center
Division of Recreation/Recreational Activities/Collinwood
East End Neighborhood House
Eastside Ecumenical Church Consortium (The)
Euclid-St. Clair Development Corporation

The City Record
Full Gospel Evangelistic Center,
Inc.
GLAD Center, Inc.
Goodrich-Gannett
Neighborhood
Center
Greater Cleveland Neighborhood
Center Association
Harvard Community Services Center
Karamu House, Inc.
Lexington-Bell Community Center
Merrick House
Near West Theatre, Inc.
Nottingham Youth Center, Inc.
Old Brooklyn Neighborhood Services, Inc.
Phillis Wheatley Association
Professional Flair, Inc.
Safety Department/Cleveland Municipal School District
Salvation Army (The)
Services For Independent Living,
Inc.
West Side Ecumenical Ministry
YMCA — Broadway Branch
YMCA — Brooklyn Branch
YMCA — Downtown-/-West Side
Branches
YMCA — Glenville Branch
YMCA — Midtown East Branch
YMCA — West Park
ELDERLY
Alta Social Settlement House
Catholic Charities Services Corp.
(Hispanic Senior Center)
Catholic Charities Services Corp.
(Martin
dePorres
Center
Wards
10/11)
Community Re-Entry, Inc.
Cory Senior Citizens Program, Inc.
East End Neighborhood House
EBC’s Fery Development Corporation
Famicos Foundation
Golden Age Centers of Greater
Cleveland, Inc.
Golden Age Centers of Greater
Cleveland, Inc. (Home Base)
Greater Cleveland Neighborhood
Centers Association
Phillis Wheatley Association
Salvation Army (Tremont)
Senior Citizen Resources, Inc.
Senior
Citizen
Resources,
Inc.
(Transportation)
Senior Outreach Services (Ward
6/Community Socialization)
Senior Outreach Services (Centers
for Families and Children)
Vocational Guidance Services
Werner Community Outreach, Inc.
West Side Community House
FAMILY
AACCESS-Ohio
American Sickle Cell Anemia Association
Cleveland Church of Christ Economic Development, Inc. (Custom Enrichment)
Cleveland Mediation Center
El Barrio
Free Clinic
Hijos De Borinquen Spanish American Center
Merrick House (The)
Mum-Ford Visual Health Care, Inc.
Near West Side Multi-Service Corporation-/-May Dugan
Recovery Resources
Vietnamese Community
West Side Multi Service Corporation — Consortium
OTHER
Achievement Center for Children
Allegheny West Conference Corporation of Seventh Day Adventists
(Better Living Center)
Catholic
Charities
Health
and
Human Services (Women Shelter)
Community Re-Entry (New Life
Center)

2258

October 16, 2002
Domestic Violence Center
Golgotha Baptist Church, Inc.
Greater Cleveland Neighborhood
Centers Association
Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
National Federation of the Blind
New Cleveland Food Basket
Parkworks, Inc.
Salvation Army (The)
Spanish American Committee for a
Better Community
Starting Point
Triumph House
West Side Community House
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 1119-02, passed
June 17, 2002 is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 2031-02.
By Council Members Lewis, Polensek and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Chapter 188 relating to employment of City residents for certain
public improvement contracts.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland believes strongly in
employment opportunities for Cleveland residents; and
Whereas, despite, the expenditure
of millions of dollars in the City of
Cleveland on projects recently completed or currently under construction, few of the employment opportunities arising from those projects
have gone to Cleveland residents;
and
Whereas, Cleveland residents pay
taxes to support municipal services
beneficial to residents and non-residents; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has a higher unemployment rate
and higher poverty rate than Cuyahoga County and many surrounding
communities; and
Whereas, this Council believes
that construction contractors working on City-funded projects should
employ City residents in the furtherance of the City-funded projects
or face financial penalties for failing to do so; and
Whereas, the employment of City
residents on construction projects
funded, in part or in whole, with
City assistance will help alleviate
unemployment and poverty in the
City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to any provision of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are hereby
supplemented
by
enacting
new
Chapter 188, to read as follows:

October 16, 2002
Chapter 188
Cleveland Resident Employment Law
Section 188.01 Definitions
For purposes of this chapter, the
following words, phrases and terms
are defined as follows:
(a) “City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
(b) “Construction Contract” means
any binding agreement executed on
or after the effective date of this
chapter whereby the City either
grants a privilege or is committed
to expend or does expend funds or
other resources, in an amount of
$100,000 or more, for the erection,
rehabilitation, alteration, conversion,
extension, demolition or repair of
improvements to real property, including facilities providing utility
service and includes the supervision,
inspection, and other on-site functions incidental to construction. Construction Contract includes any contract that is entered into by a person or entity that receives a grant,
loan, privilege, credit, or resources
from the City, in an amount of
$100,000 or more, for the purpose of
erecting,
rehabilitating,
altering,
converting, extending, demolishing,
or repairing real property or improvements to real property.
(c) “Contractor” means any person
or company receiving a Construction
Contract from the City of Cleveland,
any subdivision of the City, or any
individual legally authorized to bind
the City pursuant to said Contract.
(d) “Director” means the Director
of the Office of Equal Opportunity.
(e) “Residents” or “Residents of
the City” shall mean persons domiciled within the boundaries of City
of Cleveland. The domicile is an
individual’s one and only true, fixed
and permanent home and principal
establishment.
(f) “Skilled and unskilled construction trades workers” includes
all work site foremen, journeyworkers, including technical engineers,
apprentices,
construction
trainees
and elevator construction helpers
and apprentices that are in a bona
fide apprenticeship training program that is certified by the U.S.
Department of Labor, Bureau of
Apprenticeship and Training. Also
included are other workers appropriate for construction activities.
Salaried superintendents are excluded from this special provision.
(g) “Subcontractor(s)” means any
person or company that assumes by
secondary contract some or all of
the obligations of the original contractor.
Section 188.02 Employment of City
Residents
(a)
Any
construction
contract
awarded after the effective date of
this chapter and which is funded
entirely or in part by the City of
Cleveland, or fully or in part with
federal grant opportunities for the
poor, minorities, and/or unemployed
including, without limitation, Community Development Block Grants,
Urban Development Action Grants
and Economic Development Administration Grants in which the City
agrees to expend at least $100,000 or
more, and where not otherwise prohibited by federal, state or local
law,
shall
contain
a
provision
requiring residents of the City to
perform forty percent (40%) of the
total construction worker hours performed by the contractor and the

The City Record
subcontractor(s) in the categories of
skilled and unskilled construction
trade workers and shall contain a
provision detailing the penalties for
failure to do so as set forth in Section 188.05. Of the forty percent
(40%) Resident worker hours, no
less than ten percent (10%) must be
performed by persons who qualify
as low income persons, under the
poverty guidelines for the 48 Contiguous States and the District of
Columbia, as periodically defined
and published in the Federal Register by the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services under authority of 42 USCA Section 9902(2).
Poverty guideline figures which are
in use at the execution of the construction contract shall be used in
determining who is a low income
person(s).
(b) The percentage levels set
forth in Section 188.02(a) are intended as minimum goals for utilization of Residents of the City of
Cleveland on the construction projects and shall not be construed as
limiting or deferring the full utilization of Residents of the City
beyond this numerical level. Contractors and subcontractor(s) shall
make efforts to the greatest extent
feasible to utilize Residents of the
City of Cleveland in unskilled and
skilled labor positions.
(c)
In
determining
the
total
Employee Work Hours to be furnished at the construction site, there
shall be included the number of
hours devoted to all tasks customarily performed on a construction
site, whether or not such tasks are,
in fact, performed on the construction site. Employee work hours performed by non-Ohio Residents shall
be excluded in determining total
work hours.
(d) Prior to the commencement of
work, each contractor and subcontractor(s) shall complete and submit
to the Director a work force table.
This document shall identify the
estimated work force requirements
for the duration of the job, broken
down by trade and month. These
documents
shall
be
revised
as
required, but not less than once a
month. A contractor’s or subcontractor(s’) failure to provide this document or the furnishing of substantially false or misleading information in this document, shall be considered non-compliance with the
terms of this Chapter.
Section
188.03
Exceptions
and
Waivers
(a) The Director shall develop
standards and procedures for reducing or waiving the minimum percentage level of Residents set forth
in Section 188.02. Such standards and
procedures shall be provided to
Council for review and publication
in the City Record within thirty (30)
days of the passage of this chapter.
Such standards and procedures shall
specify that the employment of the
minimum percentage of Residents
may be reduced only when a bidder
can demonstrate the impracticality
or excessive cost of complying with
this percentage level for particular
contracts or classes of employees.
The Director shall use the standard
of “efforts to the greatest extent feasible” in establishing standards and
procedures.
(b) A waiver or reduction may be
deemed appropriate by the Director
if
a
bidder
has
unsuccessfully

2259

7
solicited a sufficient number of Residents of the City to perform the
work identified in the bid solicitation and has documented such effort
to the satisfaction of the Director.
In addition, such standards and procedures shall require that a bidder
seeking a waiver or reduction shall
have provided timely notice of the
need of qualified Residents of the
City of Cleveland to an appropriate
source of referrals, which source
shall be entitled to comment on any
waiver or reduction application. If
the Director determines that a lesser percentage standard is appropriate with respect to a particular contract subject to competitive bidding
prior to the bid solicitations for such
contract, such bid solicitations shall
include a statement of such revised
standards.
(c) The Director shall file his
determination on all reductions he
determines or is requested, or waiver requests made pursuant to this
paragraph with the Clerk of City
Council, the President of City Council, and the Employment Affirmative
Action and Training Committee,
within five (5) working days of
making such determination.
Section 188.04 Monitoring by Director; Reporting by Contractor
(a) The Director shall separately
monitor the utilization of Residents
of the City of Cleveland on all
applicable projects in skilled and
unskilled construction trades workers positions, and shall report his
findings in writing to the Clerk of
City Council, the President of City
Council, and to the Employment
Affirmative Action and Training
Committee of this Council on a bimonthly basis.
(b) The contractor shall provide
for the maintenance of all employee
residency records to ensure that
Residents of the City are employed
on the construction project. The contractor and subcontractor(s) shall
maintain copies of personnel documents supportive of every Cleveland
employee’s actual record of residence.
(c) The contractor shall designate
a principal officer of its firm to be
responsible for administering the
residency requirement goals for the
contractor and all of its subcontractor(s) pursuant to the requirements
detailed in this Chapter. This officer shall meet regularly, or as may
be required, with the Director or his
designee to ensure compliance with
the residency requirements set forth
herein. Primary responsibility for
meeting
established
goals
shall
remain with the contractor. Weekly certified payroll reports (U.S.
Department of Labor Form WH-347
or equivalent) shall be submitted to
the Director for applicable construction contracts and shall identify
clearly the actual residence of every
employee on each submitted certified payroll. The first time an
employee’s name appears on a payroll, a hire date for the employee
should be written in after the
employee’s name.
(d) Full access to the contractors’
and subcontractor(s’) employment
records shall be granted to the
Director, his designated agents, the
Chief of Police, or any duly authorized representative thereof. The
contractor
and
subcontractor(s)
shall maintain all relevant personnel data in records for a period of

The City Record

8
at least three (3) years after final
completion of work. This retention
period may be extended in writing
by the Director based upon audit
irregularities.
(e) At the direction of the Director, affidavits and other supporting
documentation will be required of
the contractor and/or subcontractor(s) to verify or clarify an employee’s actual address when doubt or
lack of clarity has arisen.
Section 188.05 Violation and Penalty
(a) When work on the construction project is completed, and in the
event that the Director determines
that the contractor and/or subcontractor(s) has failed to fulfill the
requirements of Section 188.02 concerning hours of work performed by
Residents of the City or has failed
to report in the manner set forth in
Sections 188.02 and 188.04, the City
is deemed to have been damaged.
Good faith efforts on the part of the
contractor and/or subcontractor(s)
to provide employment to Residents
of the City shall not suffice to
replace the actual, verified achievement of the requirements of Section
188.02.
(b) In the event of noncompliance
with Section 188.02, 1/4 of 1 percent
of the approved contract value for
the applicable contract shall be surrendered by the contractor and/or
subcontractor(s) to the City in payment for each percentage of shortfall toward the residency percentage
set forth in Section 188.02.
(c) Failure to report the residency of employees in accordance with
Section 188.04 shall result in the surrender of the entire penalty provided in section (b) hereof, and such
penalty shall be calculated as if no
Residents of the City were employed
on the construction project.
(d) Any organization who willingly falsifies statements or the certification of payroll data is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree
and subject to a fine of not more
than five thousand dollars ($5,000).
Upon conviction, such organization
shall be barred from contracting
with the City on any construction
project subject to this Chapter for a
period of five (5) years.
(e) Any retainage to cover contract performance that may become
due to the contractor and/or subcontractor(s) pursuant to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland may be withheld by the City
pending the determination by the
Director
whether
the
contractor
and/or subcontractor(s) must surrender damages as provided in this
paragraph. The City of Cleveland
may also sue the contractor and/or
subcontractor(s) for breach of contract.
(f) All funds collected by the City
of Cleveland for violation of Sections 188.02 and/or 188.04 shall be
deposited into a special account
which shall be created for the sole
purpose of receiving said funds. The
funds deposited into this account
shall be used by the Director for the
operation of the Office of Equal
Opportunity provided such funds
have been appropriated for that purpose and the Director obtains the
necessary legislative authority.
(g) In addition to assessing the
monetary damages set forth above,
the City may, for a period of five
(5) years after a violation of this

chapter,
require
the
contractor
and/or subcontractor(s) to post a
surety bond or other appropriate
security in an amount representing
twenty percent (20%) of the contract price for any subsequent contract on which the contractor and/or
subcontractor(s) bid, which the contractor
and/or
subcontractor(s)
shall agree and shall be required to
forfeit in its entirety in the event
that
full
compliance
with
the
requirements of this chapter are not
achieved during the performance of
any future contract. This surety
bond shall be in addition to such
other surety bonds that are required
pursuant to the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio.
(h) Any person who is employed
on a construction project subject to
the provisions of this chapter and
who knowingly supplies false information concerning his or her residence is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and subject to
imprisonment for a period not to
exceed (6) months and a fine of not
more
than
one
thousand
dollars($1,000). Upon conviction, such
person shall be barred from employment on any construction project
subject to this Chapter for a period
of five (5) years.
Section 188.06 Severability
Each section and each part of
each section of this Cleveland Resident Employment Law is hereby
declared to be an independent section or part of a section, and
notwithstanding any other evidence
of legislative intent, it is hereby
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstances, is held
to be invalid, the remaining sections
or parts of sections and the application of such provision to any other
person or circumstances, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby. It is
further declared to be the legislative
intent that the other provisions of
this Code would have been adopted
independently of such section or
parts of a section, which are held to
be invalid.
Section 188.07 Duration
This residency code is enacted as
a temporary measure to alleviate
the lack of use of Cleveland Residents on City of Cleveland Construction Projects found to exist by
the Council of the City of Cleveland.
This code shall remain in full force
and
effect,
subject
to
periodic
review by the Council of the City of
Cleveland. The City Council shall
regularly, but at a minimum of once
every five (5) years, determine
whether there is a continuing need
to
ensure
adequate
residency
employment,
and
make
relevant
findings in support of that determination, and, if necessary amend this
Chapter as appropriate.
Section 188.08 Effective Date
This chapter shall be effective
and be in force immediately upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor
or the earliest period allowed by
law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

2260

October 16, 2002
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Office of
Equal Opportunity, Finance, Law;
Committees on Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Legislation, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 2032-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 606-02,
passed April 1, 2002 relating to an
agreement with Sculpture Center,
through the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 606-02, passed April 1,
2002, are hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $8,390 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 606-02, passed April 1,
2002, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2033-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
The Historic Warehouse District to
hang five banners on W. 6th St.,
Lakeside Ave., & St. Clair Ave.,
using Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate permission)
publicizing their special event for
the period of October 10, 2002 to
December 31, 2002, inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to The Historic
Warehouse District, 614 Superior
Avenue NW, Suite 714, Cleveland,
Ohio 44113, to install, maintain and
remove 5-banners to be hung on
Cleveland
Public
Power
utility

October 16, 2002
poles, (by separate permission), for
the period of October 10, 2002 to
December 31, 2002, inclusive, publicizing their special event, and which
banners are to be placed at the following pole locations and on the following pole numbers: West 6th
Street: S.W. Corner of Johnson Ct.,
No Tag; SW Corner of Lakeside
Ave., No Tag; Lakeside Avenue: SE
Corner of West 6th St., No Tag; SE
Corner of West 4th St., No Tag; St.
Clair Avenue: NW Corner of West
4th St.; and which pole and banner
locations shall be approved by the
Director of Public Service in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be placed must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners, and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2034-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Walk As-One/RockAs-One Walkathon on May 3, 2003,
sponsored by The National Conference for Community and Justice.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the
holding
of
the
Walk-asOne/Rock-As-One-Walkathon,
sponsored by The National Conference
for Community and Justice, on May
3, 2003, beginning at The Rock and
Roll Hall of Fame and Museum
Plaza at East 9th, south on East 9th
to Superior, west on Superior to
West 6th, north on West 6th to
Lakeside, east on Lakeside to West
3rd, north on West 3rd behind
Browns
Stadium,
east
behind
Browns Stadium to Harbor Walkway, east on Harbor Walkway to
East 9th, north on East 9th to The
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and
Museum Plaza, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be neces-

The City Record
sary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit shall
further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2035-02.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Department of Public Health to
stretch a banner at 7719 Detroit
Avenue, for the period from October
14, 2002 to October 21, 2002, inclusive, publicizing Lead Poisoning
Prevention Campaign.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Department of
Public Health to install, maintain
and remove a banner at 7719 Detroit
Avenue, for the period from October
14, 2002 to October 21, 2002, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

2261

9
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 2036-02.
By Council Member Jones.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit to
4139 Lee Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Sheree A. Allen,
DBA Turps Megabyte, 4139 Lee
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent Number 0134278; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; a nd
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Sheree A. Allen,
DBA Turps Megabyte, 4139 Lee
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent Number 0134278; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force

10
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2037-02.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 17910 Lakeshore Boulevard and repealing Resolution No.
1631-01, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit to 17910
Lakeshore Boulevard by Resolution
No. 1631-01 adopted by the Council
on August 15, 2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Michael D. Polensek and Applicant, Mark McGraw, Vice President
of C & CS Corner Tavern, Inc., DBA
Time Out Grill, 17910 Lakeshore
Boulevard, a copy of which is in the
file for this address with the City
Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit to 17910 Lakeshore
Boulevard, be and the same, is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1631-01, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1373-02.
By Council Member Cimperman
(by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority to
encroach into the public right-ofway of the Central Business District
with 47 Information Holders to show
RTA Route Changes and to create a
permanent RTA Information System
in 47 specific areas.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Commit-

The City Record
tee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 2, line 1 and line 5,
strike “banner” and insert “information holders”; and in Section 4, lines
1 and 2, strike “Banner Systems” and
insert “information holders”.
2. In Section 5 at the end add the
following: “That the Permit shall
contain a restrictive provision stating that when the information holders are not being used to advise the
public of temporary route changes
or stop locations that they shall contain only RTA-related information.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1521-02.
By Council Members Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of inspecting
and rehabilitating cycle E water
tanks; and authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
such
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, line 4 and Section
1, line 3, strike “rehabilitating” and
insert in lieu thereof: “assessing”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1531-02.
By Council Members Britt, Lewis,
White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to enact new
Sections 141.22 and 141.23 relating to
the establishment of the Division of
Air Quality; to repeal Section 141.21,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 1996-90,
passed April 8, 1991; to provide the
transfer of funds within the Department of Public Health; and to
amend Section 38 of Ordinance No.
469-02, passed April 1, 2002, as
amended, relating to compensation
for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Personnel and Human Resources, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health and Human Services, Employment, Affirmative Action and
Training, Legislation, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. Insert new Section 8 to read as
follows:
“Section 8. That one year after passage of this ordinance, the Commissioner of Air Quality shall review
the activities of the Division of Air

2262

October 16, 2002
Quality in all matters germane to
duties related to air quality, including, but not limited to, planning,
managing and implementing divisional air programs and policies;
enforcement and compliance monitoring; and other duties required by
ordinance or the Director of Public
Health.
Upon completion of the
review, the Commissioner of Air
Quality shall submit a report on the
state of air quality in the City of
Cleveland to the Council Committee
on Health and Human Services.”.
2. Renumber existing Section 8 to
new “Section 9.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1542-02.
By Council Members Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with Buckeye Area Development
Corporation, or its designee, to provide financial assistance in the form
of a Community Development Float
Loan to partially finance the construction of single-family lease-purchase homes in the Buckeye area.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on City Planning;
Passage
recommended
by
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1884-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving amendments to the Plan of
Operation and Governance for the
City’s electric aggregation program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:38 p.m. to meet on Monday, October 21, 2002, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

The City Record

October 16, 2002
BOARD OF CONTROL
October 9, 2002
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, October 9,
2002, at 10:00 a.m. with Mayor Campbell presiding.
Present: Mayor Campbell, Directors Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Acting Director Nielson, Director Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek,
Romero, Sims, Fumich and Taylor.
Absent: None.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Carol Whitaker, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 660-02.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Cooper Landscaping, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of labor
and materials necessary to repair
tree lawns and landscaping maintenance, all items, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
two (2) years beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on the 1st day of August
2002, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance
No.
2104-2000,
passed
March 19, 2001 which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to Two Hundred
Fifty
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($250,000.00) (2% Net 30 Days), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 122428
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Fifty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($50,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by Cooper Landscaping Inc. for the disposal of debris at landfill sites for the
above-mentioned Requirement Contract is hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
Top Gun Inc.

MBE/FBE
$2,400.00
(MBE)(.96%)

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Acting
Director Nielson, Director Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Sims, Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 661-02.
By Director Mok.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1125-01, passed

by the Cleveland City Council on
June 19, 2001, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 419-02, adopted July
10, 2002, the City, through its Director of Port Control, was authorized
to enter into agreement with Brown
and Caldwell Ohio, LLC (“Consultant”), for the purpose of providing
professional environmental services
necessary for the design and modification of storm water pollution
prevention plans for the expansion
program
at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International Airport;
Whereas, said resolution incorrectly referenced March 4, 2002 as
the date of the cost proposal; and
Whereas, said resolution incorrectly stated the total contract
amount as Two Hundred Fifty
Thousand
and
00/100
Dollars
($250,000); now, therefore,
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
said Resolution No. 419-02, adopted
July 10, 2002, is hereby amended by
deleting reference to the cost proposal date of “March 4, 2002”, and
substituting therefor the date of
“September 24, 2002” where appearing.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that said Resolution No.
419-02, adopted July 10, 2002, is hereby further amended by correcting
the stated contract amount from
Two Hundred Fifty Thousand and
00/100 Dollars ($250,000.00) to an
amount not to exceed Three Hundred Twenty Five Thousand and
00/100 Dollars ($325,000.00), where
appearing.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 419-02 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Acting
Director Nielson, Director Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Sims, Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 662-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1642-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland
November 24, 1997 and as amended
by Ordinance No. 1960-99, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
April 10, 2000, the firm of URS Corporation, Inc.-Ohio (“Consultant”) is
hereby selected upon the nomination
of the Director of Public Service
from a list of qualified consultants
or firms of such consultants determined to be available after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Service as the firm to
be employed by contract to supplement the regularly employed staff
of several departments of the City
in order to provide general engineering services with respect to the
Carter Road, Columbus Road, Center
Street, West 3rd Street, Willow
Avenue
and
Eagle
Avenue
lift
bridges. The work to be done with
respect to said lift bridges by the
Consultant shall be as determined
by the Director of Public Service.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Service hereby is
authorized to enter into contract
with said Consultant based upon its
proposal dated September 20, 2002,
which contract shall provide that the
compensation to be paid shall not

2263

11
exceed
$100,000.00.
The
contract
authorized hereby shall be prepared
by the Director of Law and shall contain such other provisions, as said
Director deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by URS Corporation,
Inc.-Ohio for the contract herein
authorized hereby is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS
Polytech, Incorporated
(MBE — 16.1%)
KS Associates Inc.
(FBE — 6.9%)
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Acting
Director Nielson, Director Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Sims, Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 663-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that pursuant to authority of Ordinance No. 697-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland
June 3, 2002, the firm of KS Associates, Inc. is hereby selected upon
the nomination of the Director of
Public Service from a list of qualified consultants or firms of such
consultants determined to be available after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Public Service as the firm to be employed by
contract to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City in order to
provide services necessary to perform a boundary survey for all land
leased to the Ohio Department of
Natural Resources from the City of
Cleveland for Cleveland Lakefront
State Park sites.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Service hereby is
authorized to enter into a written
contract with KS Associates, Inc.
based on its proposal dated May 24,
2002 and its amended proposal dated
September 5, 2002, provided that the
compensation to be paid shall not
exceed One Hundred Twenty-Nine
Thousand
and
00/100
Dollars
($129,000.00). The agreement authorized hereby shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain
such other provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by KS Associates, Inc.
for the professional services contract authorized above hereby is
approved:
DLZ Ohio, Inc.
614 West Superior Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44113
(MBE) — $35,700 — (27.14%)
LV Surveying, Inc.
11528 Royalton Road
North Royalton, Ohio 44133
(FBE) — $24,645 — (13.68%)
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Acting
Director Nielson, Director Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Sims, Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

12
Resolution No. 664-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Whereas, Resolution 634-02 adopted by the Board of Control on September 25, 2002, approving the bid of
Bituminous Products Company for
an estimated quantity of SSI tack
coat, for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Service, incorrectly stated the amount of the initial Requisition; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 634-02 adopted by the
Board of Control on September 25,
2002, approving the bid of Bituminous Products Company for an estimated quantity of SSI tack coat, for
the Division of Streets, Department
of Public Service, is hereby amended
by deleting the amount of requisition
No. 123315 and substituting therefor,
“Three Thousand Four Hundred and
00/100 Dollars ($3,400.00)”.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 634-02 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Acting
Director Nielson, Director Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Sims, Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 665-02.
By Director Draper.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Action Door for an estimated
quantity of overhead door repair, for
the Division of Fire, Department of
Public Safety, for the period of one
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
August 9, 2002, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 594-02,
passed by Cleveland City Council on
May 20, 2002, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Sixty Thousand, and
00/100 Dollars ($60,000), is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is hereby requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
such goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 116422
as specified,
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Five
Thousand
and
00/100
Dollars
($5,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Acting
Director Nielson, Director Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Sims, Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 666-02.
By Director Draper.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Globe Manufacturing Co., d.b.a.
Cairns Protective Clothing, for an
estimated quantity of turnout cloth-

The City Record
ing, item nos. 1 and 2, for the Division of Fire, Department of Public
Safety, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
August 2, 2002, pursuant to the
authority of Section 135.06 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Ninety Nine Thousand, Seven and
00/100 Dollars ($99,007.00) hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is hereby requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
such goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 116423
as specified
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Nine
Thousand Nine Hundred and 70/100
Dollars ($9,900.70).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirement for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Acting
Director Nielson, Director Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Sims, Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 667-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Al’s High Tech, Inc., d.b.a. Al’s
Electric Motor Service for an estimated quantity of all items, for the
Division of Property Management,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
July 17, 2002, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 539-02,
passed April 22, 2002, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Seventy-Five Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($75,000.00),
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is hereby requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
such goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 128714
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Thousand
and
00/100
Dollars
($20,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, but not to exceed
total amount of $75,000.00, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Acting
Director Nielson, Director Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Sims, Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

2264

October 16, 2002
Resolution No. 668-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 001-08-086 located at 1340 West
87th Street in Ward 18; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Paula DeJesus and Angel
Caban, abutting/adjacent landowners, have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcel;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 18 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with with Paula
DeJesus and Angel Caban for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 001-08-086 located at 1340
West 87th Street, in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Acting
Director Nielson, Director Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Sims, Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 669-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 006-20055 located at 2065 West
45th Street in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization

October 16, 2002
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Luis M. Torres and
Betty L. Torres, abutting/adjacent
landowners, have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Luis M. Torres and Betty L. Torres for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel No. 006-20-055 located at 2065
West 45th Street, in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Acting
Director Nielson, Director Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Sims, Fumich and Taylor
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

The City Record
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2002
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 02-273: 10931 Detroit
Avenue (Ward 19)
Horizon Developers, prospective
purchaser c/o Bill Hahn, agent,
appeal to construct four 20' x 40'
single family 3-story, frame townhouse dwelling units, with partial
roof decks and 20' x 20' attached
garages all situated on a 64' x 107'
parcel located in a Residence Office
District on the southwest corner of
West
100th
Street
and
Detroit
Avenue at 10931 Detroit Avenue;
said construction being contrary to
the Area Requirements of Section
355.04(a), where a 9,600 sq. ft. lot is
required and a 6,938 sq. ft. lot is proposed and contrary to the Yards and
Courts
Requirements
of
Section
357.05, where a 5' side street yard
setback is required and 0' is proposed and Section 357.08(2)(b)(1),
where a 20' rear yard setback is
required and 5' is proposed and an
interior side yard setback of 4' is
proposed and 12' is required as
stated in Section 357.09(b)(2) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-279: 750 Huron Road
(Ward 13)
SBC/Ameritech, owner c/o Karl
Kressler, and Patrick Farrell, agent,
appeal to construct an approximate
42' x 60' loading dock area addition
to the rear of an existing sevenstory
building
situated
on
an
acreage parcel located in a General
Retail Business District on the
southwest corner of East 8th Street
and Huron Road at 750 Huron Road;
said construction and addition being
contrary to the Off-Street Parking
and Loading Requirements, where a
15'-8" front yard setback is proposed
and loading docks are required to be
not less than 50' from the street as
stated in Section 349.17 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-280: 13513 Rugby
Road (Ward 10)
Popie and Lizzie Howard, owners,
appeal to enclose an existing 7' x
18' masonry porch with tempered
glass units and screens all situated
on a 34' x 120' parcel located in a
B-1 Two-Family District on the
north side of Rugby Road at 13513
Rugby Road; said enclosure being
contrary to the Yards and Courts
Requirements, where the proposed
porch projects 7' and enclosed front
porches shall not project more than
4' as stated in Section 357.13(b)(4)
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-281: 7820 Beman
Avenue (Ward 12)
Valerie Tomlinson, owner, appeal
to enclose an existing 5' x 20'
masonry porch with tempered glass
units and screens all situated on a
35' x 140' parcel located in a B-1
Two-Family District on the south
side of Beman Avenue at 7820 Beman Avenue; said enclosure being
contrary to the Yards and Courts
Requirements, where the proposed
porch projects 5' and enclosed front
porches shall not project more than
4' as stated in Section 357.13(b)(4)
of the Codified Ordinances.

2265

13
Calendar No. 02-282: 3307 Scranton
Road (Ward 14)
Metro Lofts LLC, owner c/o Douglas Wahl, agent, appeal to change
the use of an existing 27,435 sq. ft.
three-story warehouse building into
21 loft apartments all situated on an
approximate 205' x 236' irregular
shaped parcel located in a MultiFamily District on the east side of
Scranton Road at 3307 Scranton
Road; said change of use being contrary
to
the
Landscaping
and
Screening Requirements of Section
352.09, where a 4' wide transition
strip is required between the parking lot and the abutting residential
district and contrary to the Area
Requirements
of
Section
355.04,
where a 10,400 sq. ft. maximum
gross floor area is permitted and
27,435 sq. ft. is proposed and contrary to the Yards and Courts Requirements of Section 357.14(a)(1),
where parking of motor vehicles in
the setback area long Corning Avenue is prohibited and contrary to the
Fence Regulations, where a 6' high
fence in the setback area is proposed and fences in the actual front
yards and actual side street yards
shall not exceed 4' in height as
stated in Section 358.04(a) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-283: 14602 Milverton
Road (Ward 4)
Blanche Foster, owner, appeals to
construct a 10' x 10' deck with a
disability ramp to the rear of an
existing
house
situated
on
an
approximate 50' x 122' irregular
shaped corner parcel located in a
One-Family District on the south
side of Milverton Road at 14602 Milverton Road; said construction being
contrary to the Yards and Courts
Requirements, where a ramp and
deck are proposed and side street
yard encroachments allow for steps
and landings up or down to floor
levels
as
stated
in
Section
357.13(b)(2) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-284: 3648 East 116th
Street (Ward 3)
Henry Person, owner, appeals to
install approximately 90 linear feet
of 4' high chain link fencing to the
front perimeter of a 40' x 133' parcel located in a Local Retail Business District on the west side of East
116th Street at 3648 East 116th Street;
said installation being contrary to
the Fence Regulations, where a
chain link fence is proposed and the
type of fencing permitted in the front
yard is ornamental and shall be 50%
open as stated in Section 358.04(a) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-285: 3111 East 93rd
Street (Ward 4)
Jamal Hanini, owner, and Nanja
Sundram, agent, appeal to construct
a new service station with 3 pump
islands all situated on an approximate 150' x 170' corner parcel located in a Local Retail Business District on the southeast corner of
Dickens Avenue and East 93rd
Street at 3111 East 93rd Street; said
construction being contrary to the
Business District Requirements of
Section 343.01, where service stations are not permitted in a Local
Retail Business District but first
permitted in a General Retail Business District and Section 343.18(d),
where the maximum width of a dri-

The City Record

14
veway shall be 30' and 43' is proposed and contrary to the Yards and
Courts
Requirements
of
Section
357.14(a), where parking in the setback area is prohibited and contrary
to the Fence Regulations, where
fences in the front yard shall not
exceed 4' in height and be 50% open
and an 8' high rear yard fence is
proposed and rear yard fences shall
not exceed 6' in height as stated in
Section 358.05(a)(2) of the Codified
Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2002
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
14, 2002, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 02-248 to 02-253: 31033119 Clinton Avenue
West 32nd Clinton LLC appealed
to construct a 22' x 25' single family 3-story, frame dwelling unit,
(Bldg. “C”), with a roof deck level
and a 20' x 22' attached garage on
a 28' x 64' parcel and an overall
186' x 205' parcel in a Residence
Industry District.
Calendar No. 02-254 to 02-256: 15131517 West 32nd Street
West 32nd Clinton LLC appealed
to construct a 22' x 25' single family 3-story, frame dwelling unit,
(Bldg. “B”), with a roof deck level
and a 20' x 22' attached garage on
a 25' x 62' parcel and an overall
186' x 205' parcel in a Residence
Industry District in a Residence
Industry District.
Calendar No. 02-257 to 02-261: 31103118 Vine Court
West 32nd Clinton LLC appealed
to construct a 22' x 25' single family 3-story, frame dwelling unit,
(Unit “A”), with a roof deck level
and a 20' x 22' attached garage on
a 25' x 62' parcel and an overall
186' x 205' parcel in a Residence
Industry District.
Calendar No. 02-265: 1519 West 32nd
Street
West 32nd Clinton LLC appealed
to use a 25' x 62' parcel of an overall 186' x 205' parcel as a common
area and a parking lot in a Residence Industry District.
Calendar No. 02-264: 2395 Tremont
Avenue
Mustfa E. Ayad, owner, and ZiZi
Properties, prospective purchaser,
appealed to construct six 18' x 32'
single family 3-story, frame townhouse dwelling units, with units 1 &
2 having a 20' x 23' attached
garage and 4 units having a 12' x
32' attached garage on a 63' x 198'
parcel in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-269: 4251-57 Rocky
River Drive
Vincent
Gonzalez,
owner,
appealed to expand a 49' x 72' twostory brick, 4 dwelling unit and 3

October 16, 2002

stores building to include after business hours holistic classes in a TwoFamily District.

of an acreage parcel located in General Retail Business and Semi-Industry Districts.

Calendar No. 02-272: 4365 West 145th
Street
Charles Pavlik appealed to install
43 linear feet of 6' high board-onboard wood fencing on the north
and south side of a 45' x 109' parcel in a One-Family District.

Calendar No. 02-244: 13527 Puritas
Avenue
Joseph Gaglione appealed to construct and repair a 10' x 19' front
porch of a single dwelling house in
a One-Family District.

The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 02-270: 17510 Lorain
Avenue
Charles
Piscatelli,
owner,
and
Daniel
Gerber,
prospective
purchaser, appealed to establish the use
of a one-story masonry building as
an auto repair building in a Shopping Center District.
Calendar No. 02-271: 17600 Lakeshore
Boulevard
Ante Susnjara, owner, and Sarah
Kennedy, prospective purchaser, appealed to establish the use of a onestory masonry service station building as an auto repair garage in a
Multi-Family District.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 02-266: 7000 Euclid
Avenue postponed to November 4,
2002.
Calendar No. 02-160: 10318-20 Lorain
Avenue postponed to November
18, 2002.
The following appeals were Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 02-123: 12417-19 Buckeye Road
Guy L. Moore appealed to change
the use of a two-story masonry five
dwelling units and two stores building into a home for disabled clients
in a Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 02-192: 3123 Woodbine
Avenue
Andrew Denk appealed to construct
a
14'
x
20'
one-story
detached, frame accessory garage to
the rear of a 40' x 93' parcel in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-225: 3380 West 65th
Street
Donald
McMahan
appealed
to
establish the use of a 90' x 120' one
and two story metal garage and a
352' x 765' parcel as a used car lot,
auto repair, junkyard and used car
parts sales in a General Retail Business District.
On Monday, October 14, 2002, in
Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on Monday, October 7,
2002,
and
said
decisions
were
adopted and approved in Executive
Session on October 14, 2002:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 02-231: 11905 Superior
Avenue
Tops Markets and the Superior &
Lakeview
Development
Company
appealed to install 395' of 3' high
chain link fencing on top of a 6'
masonry wall to the north and west

2266

Calendar No. 02-247: 18921 Homeway
Road
Daniel R. Warren appealed to
install 35 linear feet of 5' high
wooden fencing to the north, east
and south of a 40' x 136' parcel in
a One-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-205: 1260 West 4th
Street
1260 West 4th Street LLC appealed
to change the use of a six-story
masonry warehouse storage building into 17 parking spaces on the
first floor and 19 condominium units
on the second through sixth floors
in a Limited Retail Business District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 02-246: 15605 Alonzo
Avenue a.k.a. 4473 East 156th
Street
Richard and Anne Prince appealed to change the use of a 24' x
40' nonconforming structure into
one dwelling unit on a 52' x 125'
lot in a One-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-262: Appeal of 1476
Davenport Ltd. Partn.
Matthew Lombardy appealed for
Davenport Ltd Partnership from a
violation notice issued June 13, 2002
for the location at 1613 Davenport
Avenue by the Department of Community Development, Division of
Building.
Calendar No. 02-182: 6601 Union
Avenue
Dorothy
Collins
appealed
to
change the use of a 35' x 40' onestory service station on a 40' x 130'
parcel into used auto sales and lot
in a General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 02-207: 3118 West 14th
Street
Mike Hornyak appealed to install
33' of 6' high board on board fencing to the south of a 71' x 100' parcel in a Multi-Family District.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
October 9, 2002
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-187-01.
RE: Appeal of Freeway Industrial
Properties, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as

The City Record

October 16, 2002
246 East 131st Street from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION—FIRE CODE of the
Chief of the Division of Fire, dated
November 6, 2001, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
No action this date; the docket
will be rescheduled when notified
by the Law Department.
*

*

*

Docket A-60-02.
RE: Appeal of Samuel Mirakian &
Associated Real Estate Management
Co., Owner of the Multi-Family
Masonry Property located on the
premises known as 2836 Franklin
Avenue (a.k.a. 1577-67 West 29th
Street) from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION—ELECTRICAL of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing, dated March 18,
2002, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC.
Docket A-60-02 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the appellant.
*

*

*

Docket A-121-02.
RE: Appeal of Stelia Pellegrino,
Owner of the One Story Masonry
Commercial Property located on the
premises known as 4359 Rocky
River Drive (a.k.a. 4359-63 Rocky
River Drive) from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION—UNAUTHORIZED USE
of the Commissioner of the Division
of Building and Housing, dated July
3, 2002, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
Docket A-121-02 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for a
later date.
*

*

*

Docket A-123-02.
RE: Appeal of Charles Minadeo,
Owner of the Jay Hotel located on
the premises known as 2515 Jay
Avenue from a CERTIFICATE OF
OCCUPANCY NO. 14464 of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing, dated July 31,
2002, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
There will no action on Docket A123-02 at this time, but to require
that the Appellant submit plans to
the Building Department alienating
the R-1/R-2 areas as a first step to
getting acceptance as a R-1/R-2, and
to reschedule the docket for October
23, 2002.
*

*

*

Docket A-130-02.
RE: Appeal of Northcoast Developers, Inc., Owner of the Two Story
Masonry Commercial Property located on the premises known as 2801
Grand Avenue from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION—EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing,
dated June 26, 2002, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
Docket A-130-02 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 6, 2002.

Docket A-145-02.
RE: Appeal of John A. Marinucci,
Owner of the Two Story Four
Dwelling Unit Apartment Building
located on the premises known as
1962-64 East 126th Street from an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER
of
the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated July
19, 2002, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to required that
an
approved
hard-wired
smoke
detector and fire alarm system be
installed in the building, and to
grant the variances to the other
requirements in the Adjudication
Order dated July 19th, 2002. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saab
and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

15
A motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

A-89-02—Alan G. Dylag.
A-99-02—Empigard Metal
ing, Inc.

*

Docket A-150-02.
RE: Appeal of Famicos Bebe, Inc.,
Owner of the Two Story Elderly
Care Facility located on the premises known as 966 East 146th Street
from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated September 17, 2002, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the eighty-two (82) feet
travel distance requirement and permit the travel distance to the exterior stairway to be seventy-five (75)
feet, noting that the variance is for
seven (7) feet; to require that limited area type side wall sprinkler
heads be installed in both stairwells
to afford additional exiting protection, noting that the total occupancy is forty-three (43) with children
no less than three (3) years of age.

2267

Finish-

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

*

Docket A-148-02.
RE: Appeal of 1476 Davenport
L.P., Owner of the Parking Lot and
Tower located on the premises
known as 1613 Davenport Avenue
(a.k.a. 1613-1825 Davenport Avenue)
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION—
ILLEGAL USE of the Commissioner
of the Division of Building and
Housing, dated June 13, 2002, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s request for an “Extension Of Time” and to REMAND the
property at 1613 Davenport Avenue
(a.k.a. 1613-1825 Davenport Avenue)
to the Division of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action, with the
understanding that the problem will
be resolved by the end of the year
and that a Geotech Report will be
submitted to the Building Department within thirty (30) days if necessary. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Saunders for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions, as presented by the
Secretary, for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC):
September 25, 2002
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley, Sullivan. Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.

16
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”

The City Record
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2002

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2002

Pre-Sort Mail Services, for the Various
Divisions,
Department
of
Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1059-02, (pending).
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING ON TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2002 AT 3:00 P.M. LOCATED AT CITY HALL FINANCE
CONFERENCE ROOM (RM. 104),
601 LAKESIDE AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

Remanufactured Auto/Light Truck
Transmission, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 202801, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, February 11,
2002.

Office Supplies, for the Various Divisions, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 106902, (pending).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING ON TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2002 AT 2:00
P.M. LOCATED AT CITY HALL
FINANCE CONFERENCE ROOM
(RM. 104), 601 LAKESIDE AVE.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
October 9, 2002 and October 16, 2002

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2002

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2002

Ward 21 Park Site Improvements,
for the Division of Research,
Planning and Development, Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance Nos. 1748-99 and 111402, respectively.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE OF TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS ($25.00) IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK AND/OR
MONEY ORDER.

Prisoner Meals, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No.
1102-02, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 17,
2002.

Labor & Materials Necessary to
Repair and Maintain Pump Stations, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 346-02, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, April 22, 2002.
October 9, 2002 and October 16, 2002
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2002
Fire Hydrants & Hydrants Parts, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, as authorized
by Section 129.24, of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING AT 10:30 A.M.
ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17,
2002 AT DIVISION OF WATER
PIPE
REPAIR
CONFERENCE
ROOM, LOCATED AT 4600 HARVARD
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO.
New Tires, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 917-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 17, 2002.

October 9, 2002 and October 16, 2002
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2002
Labor and Materials to Maintain
Card Access and Electronic Security Systems, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1388-2000, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland, October 9, 2000.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING ON MONDAY, OCTOBER
21,
2002
AT
2:00
P.M.,
LOCATED AT CARL B. STOKES,
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
FOURTH FLOOR CONFERENCE
ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE AVE.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
October 9, 2002 and October 16, 2002
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2002
Deicing Chemical, for Various Divisions, Department of Port Control,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
1258-02, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, August 14,
2002.
October 9, 2002 and October 16, 2002
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2002

Lumber,
for
Various
Divisions,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1067-02,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, August 14, 2002.

Two (2) Altantek, Model 85DSS
Printer/Laminator, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of
Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1597-02, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, August 14, 2002.
Air Compressor Parts &Labor, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 989-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 17, 2002.

October 9, 2002 and October 16, 2002

October 9, 2002 and October 16, 2002

Meyer Snow Plow and Spreader
Parts & Labor, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 91002, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 17, 2002.

October 16, 2002

2268

October 16, 2002 and October 23, 2002
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2002
Purchase of Shop and Diagnostic
Equipment, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 142402, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 17, 2002.
October 16, 2002 and October 23, 2002
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2002
Turbine Emission Testing, for the
Division
of
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 586-02, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 10,
2002.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING HELD AT 2:00
P.M. ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER
31, 2002 AT CLEVELAND PUBLIC
POWER,
LOCATED
AT
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Paper Products, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2357-01,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, April 22, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING HELD AT
10:00 A.M. ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2002 AT CLEVELAND
PUBLIC POWER, LOCATED AT
1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
October 16, 2002 and October 23, 2002

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 1934-02.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate portions
of Forestwood Ave., Midvale Ave.
West 192nd St., West 194th St., West
198th St., and West 202nd St.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate
portions of Forestwood Avenue, Midvale Avenue, West 192nd Street,
West 194th Street, West 198th Street
and West 202nd Street, as hereinafter described, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate portions of
the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of:

October 16, 2002
Forestwood Avenue S.W., (70.00
feet
wide)
and
its
associated
turnouts extending Westerly and
Southwesterly from the Northerly
prolongation of the Easterly line of
West 192nd Street to the Northerly
line of Midvale Avenue S.W. (50.00
feet wide).
Midvale Avenue S.W., (50.00 feet
wide) and its associated turnouts
extending Westerly from the Easterly line of the C.& D. Southwest
Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 174, Page 34, of
Cuyahoga County Records to the
Westerly line of West 202nd Street.
West 192nd Street, (width varies)
and its associated turnouts extending Northerly from the Northerly
line of Maplewood Avenue S.W.
((width varies) to the Southerly line
of Forestwood Avenue S.W. (70.00
feet wide).
West 194th Street, (50.00 feet
wide) and its associated turnouts
extending
Northerly
from
the
Southerly line of the C.& D. Southwest Subdivision as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 174 of
Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County
Records to the Northerly line of said
C.& D. Southwest Subdivision.
West 198th Street, (50.00 feet
wide) and its associated turnouts
extending
Northerly
from
the
Southerly line of the C.& D. Southwest subdivision as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 174 of
Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County
map records to the Northerly line of
said C.& D. Southwest Subdivision.
West 202nd Street, (50.00 feet
wide) and its associated turnouts
extending
Southerly
from
the
Northerly line of Midvale Avenue
S.W. (50.00 feet wide) to its Southerly terminus.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Res. No. 1989-02.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer
of ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit to 3314 Broadview Road and repealing Resolution No. 1651-02, objecting to said
transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
3314 Broadview Road by Resolution
No. 1651-02 adopted by the Council
on August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer based upon and pursuant to a cooperation agreement
signed September 15, 2002, a copy of
which is in the file for this address
with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,

The City Record
D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to 3314
Broadview Road, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1650-02, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Res. No. 1990-02.
By Council Members Jones and
White.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio Senate to reject HB 274,
which would allow citizens the right
to carry concealed weapons with the
proper permit.
Whereas, HB 274 would authorize
the carrying of concealed firearms
by citizens in the State of Ohio that
have a firearm permit; and
Whereas, HB 274 has been passed
out of the Ohio House of Representatives, and is now in the Ohio Senate for further review and discussion; and
Whereas, HB 274 is a reflection on
the most recent trend of states passing
such
laws
on
concealed
weapons; and
Whereas, there are approximately
thirty-three states that have the right
to carry concealed weapons; and
Whereas,
carrying
concealed
weapons can increase the likelihood of violent crimes by firearms,
which can pose a threat to the
health and safety of many communities; and
Whereas, the violent crime rate
had increased 17.8% in the State of
Florida between 1987 and 1992,
which has a carrying concealed
weapons law; and
Whereas, in every year from 1987
and 1992, according to the FBI’s Uniform Crime Report, Florida has had
the highest rate of violent crime in
the nation; and
Whereas, in the State of Michigan,
which has a concealed weapons law
since July 1, 2001, the state police
estimated that the number of concealed weapons will increase from
51,954
to
approximately
125,000,
based on trends in other states with
similar laws; and
Whereas, according to the analysis by the Center to Prevent Handgun Violence, violent crime actually
rose in 12 of the 29 states, which
liberalized their carrying concealed
weapons laws from 1992 to 1997; and
Whereas, in the State of Utah during 2001, concealed carry permits
were issued to some individuals wanted on an outstanding warrant; and
Whereas, this Council believes
that carrying concealed weapons
creates an armed society at risk,
which could endanger the lives of
citizens throughout various communities; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

2269

17
Section
1.
That
this
Council
strongly urges the Ohio Senate to
reject HB 274, which would allow
citizens the right to carry concealed
weapons with the proper permit.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to the
appropriate members of the Ohio
Senate.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by
law.
Adopted October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Res. No. 1991-02.
By Council Members Lewis, Zone,
O’Malley, Cintron, Gordon, Brady,
Sweeney, White, Reed, Scott, Westbrook,
Polensek,
Britt,
Jackson,
Coats, Johnson, Jones and Cimperman.
An emergency resolution urging
the Cleveland Municipal School District and the Mayor of the City of
Cleveland to implement the Cleveland
Public
Schools
Fire
Intern/Cadet Program, as part of the
Cleveland
Municipal
School
District’s Martin Luther King Jr. Law
and Public Service Magnet School,
with the purpose of preparing students in the Cleveland Municipal
School District for public safety
careers with local governments.
Whereas, Vanguards of Cleveland,
the local chapter of the International Association of Black Professional Firefighters, is interested in
establishing and implementing a
program to attract and prepare students in the Cleveland Municipal
School District for public safety
careers in local government; and
Whereas, this program, the “Cleveland Municipal School District Fire
Intern/Cadet Program” would operate as part of the Cleveland Municipal School District’s Martin Luther
King Jr. Law and Public Service
Magnet School; and
Whereas, this Fire Intern/Cadet
Program would also involve the
cooperation and assistance of the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Fire Intern/Cadet
Program will train students for public safety careers in fire service and
medical service; and
Whereas, the primary objective of
this Fire Intern/Cadet Program is to
produce firefighters and other public
safety
personnel
who
are
well
trained, dedicated to public service,
and able to effectively and efficiently perform public safety duties; and
Whereas, this Fire Intern/Cadet
Program will include a curriculum
that meets or exceeds minimum
standards necessary to excel in public safety service; and
Whereas, the goal is to begin a
pilot Fire Intern/Cadet Program for
the 2003-2004 school year; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Cleveland Municipal School District and the Mayor of the City of

18
Cleveland to establish and implement the Cleveland Public Schools
Fire Intern/Cadet Program, as part
of the Cleveland Municipal School
District’s Martin Luther King Jr.
Law and Public Service Magnet
School, with the purpose of preparing students in the Cleveland Municipal School District for public safety careers with local governments.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Barbara
Byrd-Bennett, Chief Executive Officer, Cleveland Municipal School District.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Res. No. 1992-02.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 1054 East 71st
Street, 1st Floor Front.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit from 1054 Corp., DBA Quick
Stop, 1054 East 71st Street, 1st Floor
Front, Cleveland, Ohio 44103 Permanent
Number
6548559
to
Donya
Kareem, Inc., DBA Quick Stop, 1054
East 71st Street, 1st Floor Front,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent
Number 2260087; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from 1054 Corp., DBA Quick Stop,
1054 East 71st Street, 1st Floor Front,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 Permanent
Number 6548559 to Donya Kareem,
Inc., DBA Quick Stop, 1054 East 71st
Street, 1st Floor Front, Cleveland,
Ohio
44103,
Permanent
Number
2260087; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Res. No. 1993-02.
By Council Members O’Malley,
Jackson, Pierce-Scott, Jones, Reed,
Lewis, Gordon and Johnson.
An emergency resolution calling
upon the Campbell administration to
investigate any banks and lending
institutions that refuse to lend to
residents of the City of Cleveland
and urging the administration to
cease doing business, financial or
otherwise, with such institutions if
said institutions fail to provide
loans to City residents based solely
upon the existence of the City’s antipredatory lending ordinance.
Whereas, on April 22, 2002, Cleveland City Council passed Ordinance
No. 737-02, predatory lending legislation that regulates lending for
home purchases and renovations by
prohibiting predatory loans as defined in the ordinance; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 737-02 recognizes that predatory lenders are
thriving in Cleveland because many
citizens from Cleveland’s neighborhoods are unable to access legitimate financing for home purchases
and renovations; and
Whereas, many senior citizens
and homeowners in Cleveland are
targeted by unethical home improvement contractors, mortgage brokers,
mortgage lenders and finance companies engaging in predatory lending practices that result in foreclosure and/or stripping the home of
equity; and
Whereas, predatory lenders charge
exorbitant fees and interest rates
and are persuading citizens to incur
mortgage debt in excess of their
needs
or
ability
to
pay,
often
through fraudulent means; and
Whereas, it is the intent and purpose of Ordinance No. 737-02 to protect the citizens of Cleveland and its
neighborhoods from lending practices which strip hard earned equity from city residents and contribute
to the problem of vacant and abandoned houses by making loans that
families cannot afford to repay; and
Whereas, it is also the intention
of Ordinance No. 737-02 to further

2270

October 16, 2002
protect the citizens of Cleveland by:
(1) collecting and making available
to the public information necessary
for city residents to protect themselves against predatory lending
practices; (2) preventing the lenders
engaged in predatory lending and
those persons providing referrals
and services to those lenders from
enjoying the privilege of doing business with the City of Cleveland; and
(3) preventing predatory lenders
and those persons providing referrals and services to those lenders
from taking advantage of city programs designed to encourage home
ownership and home repair; and
Whereas, it has come to this Council’s attention that, because of the
existence of Ordinance No. 737-02,
residents of the City of Cleveland
have been refused home mortgages,
refinancing of home mortgages, and
various other loans; and
Whereas, it is incumbent upon
this administration to protect its citizens by investigating whether any
bank or other financial institution
refuses to comply with Ordinance
No. 737-02 by refusing to make loans
to Cleveland residents; and
Whereas, any financial institution
that effectively redlines Cleveland
citizens in such manner should not
be able to do business with the City
of Cleveland, and the administration
should immediately cease making
deposits and investments, and doing
any financial business with such
entities; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby calls upon the Campbell administration to investigate any banks and
lending institutions that refuse to
lend to residents of the City of Cleveland and urges the administration to
cease doing business, financial or
otherwise, with such institutions if
said institutions fail to provide loans
to City residents based solely upon
the existence of the City’s anti-predatory lending ordinance.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Res. No. 1994-02.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit to
11831 Union Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Lauren Unlimited Corp.,
DBA Neighborhood Market, 11831
Union Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 5052946; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or

October 16, 2002
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and.
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the city of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Lauren Unlimited
Corp., DBA Neighborhood Market,
11831 Union Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
441O5, Permanent Number 5052946;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Ord. No. 1059-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of pre-sort mail service, for
the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one

The City Record
year for the necessary items of presort mail service in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
a year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 104722)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Ord. No. 1069-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of office supplies, for the
various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years for the necessary items of
office supplies in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
two years may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the

2271

19
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 104721)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Ord. No. 1539-02.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 914-01,
passed June 19, 2001, relating to
authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contract with various agencies to provide social services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 914-01, passed June 19,
2001, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
the following agencies to provide
social services programs:
YOUTH
A Cultural Exchange
Bellflower Center for Prevention
of Child Abuse, Inc.
Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland
(Broadway)
Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland
(Mt. Pleasant)
Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland
(West Side)
Brooklyn
Memorial
Community
Youth Center
Catholic Charities Services Corp. –
Martin dePorres Center
Cleveland Mediation Center
Cleveland Police Athletic League
Community
Relations/Youth
At
Risk
Division
of
Recreation/Recreational Activities
Collinwood Community Services
Center (Recreation Activity)
East End Neighborhood House
Esperanza, Inc.
GLAD Center, Inc
Goodrich-Gannett Neighborhood Center
Greater Cleveland Neighborhood
Centers Association
Harvard Community Services Center
Cultural and Educational Institute
for
Boricua
Advancement,
a.k.a.
Julia de Burgos Cultural Arts Center
Karamu House, Inc.
Lexington-Bell Community Center
Merrick House
Nottingham Youth Center, Inc.
Safety Department/Greater Cleveland Roundtable
Services for Independent Living,
Inc.
The Chorale
The Salvation Army

20
West Side Ecumenical Ministry
Westown Community Development
Corporation
YMCA (Broadway Branch)
YMCA (Downtown / West Side
Branches)
YMCA (Glenville Branch)
YMCA (Midtown East Branch)
YMCA (West Park)
ELDERLY
Alta Social Settlement House
Catholic Charities Services Corp.
(Hispanic Senior Center)
Catholic Charities Corp. – Martin
dePorres Center
Center for Families and Children
Collinwood Community Services
Center
Community Re-entry, Inc.
Community Socialization Program
Cory Senior Citizens Program, Inc.
East End Neighborhood House
EBC’s Fery Development Corporation
Golden Age Centers of Greater
Cleveland, inc.
Greater Cleveland Neighborhood
Centers Association
Phillis Wheatley Association, Inc.
Salvation Army (Tremont)
Senior Citizen Resources, Inc.
Senior Outreach Services
Vocational Guidance Services
Werner Community Outreach, Inc.
West Side Community House
FAMILY
AACCESS-Ohio
American
Sickle
Cell
Anemia
Association
Custom Enrichment
El Barrio
Free Clinic
HiJos
De
Borinquen
Spanish
American Center
Merrick House, Inc.
Mum-Ford Visual Health Care,
Inc.
Near West Side Multi-Service Corporation / May Dugan
Neighborhood Counseling Service
Vietnamese Community
West Side Multi-Service Corporation – Consortium
OTHER
Achievement Center for Children
Better Living Center
Catholic Charities / Womens Shelter
Community Re-Entry
Domestic Violence Center
Guardian
House
Shelter,
Inc.,
a.k.a. G.B.C.
Hunger Network
National Federation of the Blind
New Cleveland Food Basket
Salvation Army
Spanish American Committee for a
Better Community
Starting Point
Triumph House
University Settlement
West Side Community House
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 914-01, passed June
19, 2001, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1718-02.
By Council Member Cimperman
(by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to 1100 Carnegie L.P,
General Partner for the Hilton Garden Inn to encroach into the rightof-way of Webster Avenue S.E. with
a directional sign.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to 1100 Carnegie L.P., 1022
Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, its successors and assigns, for
the construction, use and maintenance of a directional sign which
will encroach into the public rightof-way of Webster Avenue S.E. at
the location described as follows:
ENCROACHMENT AREA/WEBSTER
AVENUE S.E./DIRECTIONAL SIGN
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio at the location described as
follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Webster Avenue S.E. (60.00 feet
wide) at its intersection with the
Easterly line of East 9th Street
(99.00 feet wide);
Thence
Easterly,
along
said
Southerly line of Webster Avenue
S.E. about 9.00 feet to a point;
Thence Northerly, at right angles
to the last described line, about 3.00
feet to a point;
Thence Westerly, and parallel
with the Southerly line of Webster
Avenue S.E. as aforesaid, about 9.00
feet to a point;
Thence Southerly, about 3.00 feet
to the place of beginning.
Section 2. That said directional
sign will be placed within the public right-of-way as aforesaid in Section 1, and will be constructed in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That all other required
permits, including a Building Permit, shall be obtained before said
directional sign is constructed.
Section 3. That nothing in this
ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right,
privilege or permission to use or to
attach or affix any objects to utility poles or other objects.
Section 4. That the Permit herein
authorized shall reserve right of
ingress and egress to the City of
Cleveland, and that said Permit shall
require the Permittee to provide
Commercial General Liability Insurance, including Completed Operations Coverage, and that the Permittee shall maintain the permitted
encroachment area, and that the Permittee shall pay any applicable taxes
and assessments due and/owing on
the permitted encroachment area.
Section 5. That this permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

2272

October 16, 2002
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Ord. No. 1725-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 929-02,
passed June 10, 2002; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new
Section 3a, relating to the Director
of Community Development entering
into or amending contracts or memoranda of understanding with various public, private or governmental
agencies or entities and City departments
to
implement
Community
Development programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title of Ordinance No. 929-02, passed June 10,
2002, is amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various social service
agencies, Community Development
or local development corporations,
private for profit entities, and various governmental entities and to
enter into or amend memorandums
of understanding with various City
of Cleveland departments to implement the City’s Community Development programs and to expend
funds for the operation of programs
administered by the Department of
Community Development.
Section 2. That the existing title
of Ordinance No. 929-02, passed June
10, 2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 92902, passed June 10, 2002, is supplemented by adding new Section 3a to
read as follows:
Section 3a. That, after receiving
the required approval stated in Section 4 of this ordinance, the Director of Community Development is
authorized to enter into or amend
contracts with the State of Ohio,
Cuyahoga County, Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority, Cleveland
Municipal
School
District,
Regional Transit Authority, Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District,
Cleveland
Metroparks,
and
such
other
governmental
entities
as
defined under the Ohio Revised
Code to implement activities and
programs that are eligible under the
Community
Development
Block
Grant Program and are consistent
with the City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

The City Record

October 16, 2002

21

Ord. No. 1845-02.
By Council Members Sweeney, Johnson, Reed and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase, lease or lease to purchase by requirement contract of various types of heavy duty vehicles and apparatus for various divisions of the Departments of Public Service, Parks,
Recreation and Properties, and Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to make a written requirement contract or contracts in
accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items of various types of heavy duty vehicles and apparatus set forth as follows:
2002 HEAVY DUTY VEHICLES AND APPARATUS
Quantity
Pumper
Aerial Ladder
Aerial Platform
Rescue Squad Vehicle
Cab/Chassis-w/10 cy Rear Ldr.
Cab/Chassis-w/25 cy Rear Ldr.
Cab/Chassis-w/25 cy Rear Ldr.
Cab/Chassis-w/Amb. Module
Cab/Chassis w/Dp-Plow-Inst. Tandem
Asphalt Grinder
Cab/Chassis w/concrete body

4
1
1
1
2
3
10
1
1
1
1

User

Unit Price

Total Est. Cost

Fire
Fire
Fire
Fire
Parks
Parks
Waste
EMS
Streets
Streets
Streets

375,000
550,000
650,000
375,000
80,000
155,000
155,000
165,000
130,000
375,000
185,000

1,500,000
550,000
650,000
375,000
160,000
465,000
1,550,000
165,000
130,000
375,000
185,000
6,105,000

in the estimated sum of $6,250,000, to be purchased, leased or leased to purchase by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of the Departments of Public Service, Parks, Recreation
and Properties, and Public Safety. Bids shall be taken in such manner as to permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be charged against the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial purchase or procurement thereunder,
which purchase or procurement, together with all subsequent purchases or procurements, shall be made on order
of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a requisition against such contract duly certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the City may enter into a lease-purchase arrangement for the heavy duty vehicles and apparatus
with a bank, leasing company or any other organization that is not the manufacturer or vendor of the vehicles or
apparatus that submitted a bid for the sale, lease or lease to purchase described in this ordinance, provided that:
(I) the Director of Finance determines that it is in the best interest of the City to enter into that lease-purchase
arrangement, (II) the maximum term of any lease-purchase arrangement does not exceed ten (10) years, (III) the
aggregate principal obligation of the City under the lease-purchase arrangement does not exceed $7,000,000, (IV) if
the lease-purchase arrangement provides that the lease payments are to have a principal component and an interest component, the maximum interest rate for the interest component does not exceed seven percent (7%) per annum,
(V) the obligations of the City under that lease-purchase arrangement for fiscal years beginning after December
31, 2002 are subject to annual appropriations being made by the City sufficient to pay the lease payments and to
meet the other obligations of the City under that lease-purchase arrangement in each of these fiscal years, and
(VI) the obligations of the City thereunder for the current fiscal year do not exceed $210,000, which amount is
appropriated for that purpose. The Director of Finance is authorized to sign and deliver, for and on behalf of the
City and in the Director’s official capacity, such written agreements, certificates and instruments as may be necessary and appropriate in order to provide for that lease-purchase arrangement under the terms and conditions
authorized and containing such additional terms and conditions as are acceptable to the Director of Finance and
the Director of Law. Those agreements may include a lease-purchase agreement, an escrow agreement for the
deposit by the lessor of the purchase price of the vehicles and apparatus, acceptance certificates evidencing the
City’s acceptance of the vehicles from the vendors, and certificates as to insurance, tax compliance and related matters necessary to carry out the transaction. The lease-purchase arrangement may provide that the lease payments
are to have a principal component and an interest component and that the interest component is to be excluded
from gross income for federal income tax purposes. In that event, the Director of Finance and other City officials,
as appropriate, are authorized to covenant on behalf of the City that (I) the City will use and will restrict the use
of the vehicles and apparatus leased by the City under the lease-purchase agreement and will use, and will restrict
the investment of, any proceeds of the lease-purchase agreement in such manner and to such extent as may be necessary so that the lease-purchase agreement will not constitute a private activity bond, an arbitrage bond or a
hedge bond under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (The “Code”), or be treated other than as an
obligation to which Section 103(a) of the Code applies, and (II) the City will take or cause to be taken such actions
that may be required of it for the interest component of the lease payments to be and to remain excluded from
gross income for federal income tax purposes and the City will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion. In the event that the City enters into such a lease-purchase arrangement,
the Director of Public Service may assign to the lessor under the lease-purchase arrangement, or the lessor’s designee,
the rights of the City under the contracts for purchase of the vehicles and apparatus authorized in this ordinance.
The Director of Law, Clerk of Council and other appropriate officials of the City are authorized to sign and deliver any documents, certificates and other instruments as the Director of Law determines are necessary and appropriate to carry out the transactions authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That it is found and determined that all formal actions of the Council concerning and relating to
the passage of this ordinance were adopted in open meetings of this Council, and any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

2273

The City Record

22
Ord. No. 1938-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1374-02,
passed August 14, 2002, relating to
a requirement contract of rock salt
and chemical deicer, for the Division
of Streets, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1374-02, passed August 14,
2002, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 106875)
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 1374-02, passed
August 14, 2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Ord. No. 1985-02.
By Council Members Coats, Gordon and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1549-02, passed September 16,
2002, relating to a grant from the
Clean Ohio Assistance Fund for
Phase II remediation on property
located at Ivanhoe and East 152nd
Street for the future development of
an industrial park and a contract
with Second Growth.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1549-02,
passed
September
16,
2002,
are
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the Clean Ohio Assistance Fund, for a Clean Ohio Assessment Grant for Phase II remediation
on property located at 1088 Ivanhoe
Road, 1050 Ivanhoe Road, 1115 East
152nd Street and 1146 East 152nd
Street to be used for the future
development of a 40-acre industrial

October 16, 2002
park to be located at Five Points;
and authorizing said Director to
enter into contracts with Second
Growth to implement the project.
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the approximate amount of
$362,214 from the Clean Ohio Assistance Fund, for a Clean Ohio Assessment Grant to conduct the Phase II
remediation on property located at
1088 Ivanhoe Road, 1050 Ivanhoe
Road, 1115 East 152nd Street and
1146 East 152nd Street to be used for
the future development of a 40-acre
industrial park to be located at Five
Points, for the purposes set forth in
the summary and according thereto;
that the Director of Economic Development is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
said grant and that said funds be
and they are hereby appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
summary for said grant.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 154902, passed September 16, 2002, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Ord. No. 1986-02.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with City, County and Waste Paper
Drivers Union, Local No. 244 and City, County and Waste Paper Drivers Union, Local 244 Seasonal; and to amend
Sections 15 and 42 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance with division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves
the collective bargaining agreements with City, County and Waste Paper Drivers Union, Local No. 244 and City,
County and Waste Paper Drivers Union, Local 244 Seasonal, set forth in File No. 1986-02-A, for the period from
April 1, 2001 through March 31, 2004, which provides, among other things, for an increase in the salaries and
wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:
Increase

Effective Date of Increase

Three percent (3%)
Three and one-half percent (3.5%)
Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2001
April 1, 2002
April 1, 2003

Section 2. That Section 15 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, and Section 42 of Ordinance No. 469-02,
passed April 1, 2002, as amended by Ordinance No. 639-02, passed April 15, 2002, are amended to read as follows:
Section 15. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

Airport Maintenance Man........................................................
Concrete Mixer Driver..............................................................
Dog Warden..................................................................................
Ground Maintenance Truck Driver II................................
Hostler.............................................................................................
Parking Enforcement Officer.................................................
Street Carry-all Driver..............................................................
Street Maintenance Equipment Leader..............................
Street Equipment Maintenance Specialist.........................
Tanker Truck Driver................................................................
Tow Truck Operator..................................................................
Traffic Controller........................................................................
Truck Driver.................................................................................
Waste Collection Driver...........................................................
Waste Collection Roll-Off Driver..........................................

2274

Minimum
$11.97
$14.82
$11.04
$12.34
$ 9.80
$ 9.74
$15.55
$16.15
$15.55
$15.55
$11.80
$ 9.73
$12.50
$12.33
$15.52

Maximum
$16.14
$20.03
$14.91
$16.68
$13.24
$13.16
$21.00
$21.82
$21.00
$21.00
$15.96
$13.16
$16.90
$16.66
$21.41

October 16, 2002

The City Record

23

Section 42. Part-Time/Seasonal Group
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
6a.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Box Office Cashier.....................................................................
Chaplain..........................................................................................
Checker...........................................................................................
Conservation Aide.......................................................................
Dentist.............................................................................................
Head Usher....................................................................................
Law Clerk......................................................................................
Medical Examiner.......................................................................
Organ Tuner.................................................................................
Park Maintenance Aide............................................................
Ranger.............................................................................................
School Crossing Guard (Per Day).......................................
Section Supervisor.......................................................................
Snow Removal Vehicle Operator..........................................
Stage Hand....................................................................................
Stage Hand Casual.....................................................................
Stage Hand – Show Rate (Per Show)...............................
Student Aide.................................................................................
Student Assistant........................................................................
Usher................................................................................................
Usher Captain...............................................................................

Minimum
$10.33
$ 8.20
$ 8.70
$ 8.70
$13.38
$ 8.20
$ 8.70
$21.40
$ 9.63
$ 8.70
$ 8.20
$25.00
$ 8.70
$10.40
$19.11
$20.60
$64.89
$ 8.70
$ 8.70
$ 8.70
$ 8.70

Maximum
$13.97
$11.04
$ 9.20
$ 9.20
$27.48
$10.91
$12.00
$56.36
$24.11
$ 9.20
$10.77
$25.00
$ 9.20
$14.46
$26.29
$25.96
$85.34
$ 9.20
$ 9.20
$ 9.20
$ 9.20

Section 3. That existing Section 15 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, and Section 42 of Ordinance
No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, as amended by Ordinance No. 639-02, passed April 15, 2002, are repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Ord. No. 1987-02.
By Council Member Rybka (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to St. John’s Nepomucene
Church to encroach into the right-of-way of Independence Rd., Fleet Ave. and E. 50th St. to hang six banners
using Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate permission) for a 2-Year Celebration of the 100th Year
Anniversary of the Church’s School.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to St. John
Nepomucene Church, 3785 Independence Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, for six (6) banners to be hung on Cleveland
Public Power utility poles (by separate permission) which will encroach into the public right-of-way of Independence Road, Fleet Avenue and East 50th Street for the two (2) Year Celebration of the 100th Year Celebration of the Church’s School at the following locations:
LOCATION: INDEPENDENCE ROAD:

POLE #:

OWNER:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

SEI-103.2
SEI-103.1
SEI-102A
SEI-100A/2B
No Tag
SEI-100A-1

CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP

50-feet from Fleet Avenue
Corner of Independence & Fleet Ave.
4906 Fleet Ave. in front of School
East 50th at the West side of St. John’s Church
E. 50th St. in front of St. John’s Church
E. 50th St. (East side)1st pole South of Fleet Ave.

USE:
Single
Single
Single
Single
Single
Single

Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner

Section 2. That said banners will be placed within the public right-of-way as aforesaid in Section 1, and will
be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That all other required permits, including a Building Permit, shall be obtained before said banners
are hung.
Section 3. That nothing in this Permit grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right, privilege
or permission to use or attach or affix any objects to poles described in Section 1 of this Ordinance.
Section 4. That this permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

2275

The City Record

24
Ord. No. 1988-02.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 2030-01,
passed March 25, 2002, relating to
the public improvement of repairing
and constructing sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing, curb ramps,
median strips, intersections, bridge
approaches, utility box and casting
adjustments, and appurtenances.
Whereas, the City constructs public improvements as part of the
Home Ownership Zone using HUD
grant funds; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 4 of Ordinance No. 2030-01, passed March 25,
2002, is amended to read as follows:
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 10 SF 166, 10
SF 168, 13 SF 886, 14 SF 026, 10 SF
057, 11 SF 401 and from the fund or
funds which are credited the proceeds of the sale of any general
obligation bonds which include this
purpose, Request No. 107481.
Section 2. That existing Section 4
of Ordinance No. 2030-01, passed
March 25, 2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

Ord. No. 1995-02.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Department of Public Health to
stretch a banner at 1161 East 105th
Street, for the period from October
14, 2002 to October 22, 2002, inclusive, publicizing the Lead Poisoning
Prevention Campaign.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Department of
Public Health to install, maintain
and remove a banner at 1161 East
105th Street, for the period from
October 14, 2002 to October 22, 2002,
inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

October 16, 2002
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 7, 2002.
Effective October 9, 2002.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, October 14, 2002
11:00 A.M.
Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: Present:
Lewis, Chair; Reed, Polensek, Coats.
Excused: Conwell, Vice Chair; Cintron, Johnson.
2:00 P.M.
Finance Committee: Present: Jackson, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White,
O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.
Tuesday, October 15, 2002
10:00 A.M.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Gordon,
Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair; Reed,
Scott, Zone, Lewis. Jones, Coats.
Excused: Cintron.
Wednesday, October 16, 2002
10:00 A.M.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Reed,
Chair;
Britt,
Vice
Chair;
Coats, Brady, Jones, Zone, Conwell.
Not excused: Cimperman, White.
1:00 P.M.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee:
Present: Cimperman, Chair; Rybka,
Vice Chair; O’Malley, Conwell, Scott,
Westbrook. Excused: Lewis.
1:30 P.M.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee:
Present: Cimperman, Chair; Rybka,
Vice Chair; O’Malley, Conwell, Scott,
Westbrook. Excused: Lewis.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments
Appreciation
Miley, Linda L. (R 2052-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
Appropriations
Appropriations — ($700,000) — Enterprise Funds (O 2024-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
Banners
Historic Warehouse District, The — special event (O 2033-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lead Poisoning Prevention Campaign — Department of Public Health (Ward 8) (O 1995-02) .
Lead Poisoning Prevention Campaign — Department of Public Health (Ward 17) (O 2035-02)
St. John’s Nopomucene Church — six banners — 100th Year Anniversary of the Church’s
School (O 1987-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 2260
. . . . . . . . . . 2276
. . . . . . . . . . 2261
. . . . . . . . . . 2275

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Davenport Avenue, 1613, (a.k.a. 1613-1825 Davenport Avenue), (Ward 13) – 1476 Davenport
L.P., owner — appeal resolved on 10/09/02 (Doc. A-148-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2267
East 126th Street, 1962-64, (Ward 6) – John A. Marinucci, owner — appeal resolved
on 10/09/02 (Doc. A-145-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2267
East 131st Street, 246, (Ward 10) – Freeway Industrial Properties, owner — no action on
10/09/02 (Doc. A-187-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266

2276

The City Record

October 16, 2002

East 146th Street, 966, (Ward 10) – Famicos Bebe, Inc., owner — appeal resolved on
10/09/02 (Doc. A-150-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Avenue, 2836, (a.k.a. 1577-67 West 29th Street), (Ward 13) – Samuel Mirakian &
Associated Real Estate Management Co., owner — appeal withdrawn on
10/09/02 (Doc. A-60-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grand Avenue, 2800-01, (Ward 5) – Empigard Metal Finishing, Inc., owner — appeal adopted
on 10/09/02 (Doc. A-99-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grand Avenue, 2801, (Ward 5) – Northcoast Developers, Inc., owner — appeal rescheduled
to 11/06/02 on 10/09/02 (Doc. A-130-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jay Avenue, 2515, (Ward 13) – Charles Minadeo, owner — no action on 10/09/02
(Doc. A-123-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ridge Road, 4171, (Ward 16) – Alan G. Dylag, owner — appeal adopted on 10/09/02
(Doc. A-89-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 4359, (a.k.a. 4359-63 Rocky River Drive), (Ward 21) – Stelia
Pellegrino, owner — appeal postponed to a later date 10/09/02 (Doc. A-121-02) . . . . . . . . .

25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2267

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2267
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2267
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2267
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2267
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2267
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2267

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Storm water pollution prevention plans — amend BOC Res. 419-02 — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 661-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2263
Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Tree lawn repair and landscaping maintenance, labor and materials to — contract per Ord.
2104-2000 to Cooper Landscaping, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 660-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2263
Board of Control — Community Development Department
West 87th Street, 1340 (Ward 18) — PPN 001-08-086 — to Paula DeJesus and Angel Caban
(BOC Res. 668-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264
Board of Control — Fire Division
Doors, overhead, labor and materials to repair — contract per Ord. 594-02 to Action Door
Company — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 665-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264
Turnout uniform clothing — contract per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Globe Manufacturing Co.,
d.b.a. Cairns Protective Clothing — Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 666-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
West 45th Street, 2065 (Ward 14) — PPN
(BOC Res. 669-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 87th Street, 1340 (Ward 18) — PPN
(BOC Res. 668-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

006-20-055 — to Luis M. Torres and Betty L. Torres
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264
001-08-086 — to Paula DeJesus and Angel Caban
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 14)
West 45th Street, 2065 (Ward 14) — PPN 006-20-055 — to Luis M. Torres and Betty L. Torres
(BOC Res. 669-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 18)
West 87th Street, 1340 (Ward 18) — PPN 001-08-086 — to Paula DeJesus and Angel Caban
(BOC Res. 668-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264
Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Electric motors and pumps — contract per Ord. 539-02 to Al’s High Tech, Inc.,
d.b.a., Al’s Electric Motor Service — Division of Property Management, Dept.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 667-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264
Board of Control — Port Control Department
Storm water pollution prevention plans — amend BOC Res. 419-02 — Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 661-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2263
Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Boundary survey of land leased to ODNR for Cleveland Lakefront State Park — contract per
Ord. 697-02 to KS Associates, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 663-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2263
Lift bridges engineering services — contract per Ord. 1642-97 and 1960-99 to
URS Corporation, Inc.-Ohio — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 662-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2263
Storm water pollution prevention plans — amend BOC Res. 419-02 — Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 661-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2263

2277

The City Record

26

October 16, 2002

Board of Control — Property Management Division
Electric motors and pumps — contract per Ord. 539-02 to Al’s High Tech, Inc.,
d.b.a., Al’s Electric Motor Service — Division of Property Management, Dept.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 667-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264
Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Doors, overhead, labor and materials to repair — contract per Ord. 594-02 to Action Door
Company — Division of Fire (BOC Res. 665-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264
Turnout uniform clothing — contract per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Globe Manufacturing Co.,
d.b.a. Cairns Protective Clothing — Division of Fire (BOC Res. 666-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264
Board of Control — Public Service Department
Boundary survey of land leased to ODNR for Cleveland Lakefront State Park — contract per
Ord. 697-02 to KS Associates, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 663-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2263
Lift bridges engineering services — contract per Ord. 1642-97 and 1960-99 to
URS Corporation, Inc.-Ohio (BOC Res. 662-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2263
SSi tack coat — amend BOC Res. 634-02 — Division of Streets (BOC Res. 664-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264
Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Tree lawn repair and landscaping maintenance, labor and materials to — contract per Ord.
2104-2000 to Cooper Landscaping, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 660-02) . . . . . . . . . . 2263
Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Doors, overhead, labor and materials to repair — contract per Ord. 594-02 to Action Door
Company — Division of Fire, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 665-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electric motors and pumps — contract per Ord. 539-02 to Al’s High Tech, Inc.,
d.b.a., Al’s Electric Motor Service — Division of Property Management, Dept.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 667-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SSi tack coat — amend BOC Res. 634-02 — Division of Streets, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 664-02)
Tree lawn repair and landscaping maintenance, labor and materials to — contract per Ord.
2104-2000 to Cooper Landscaping, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 660-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turnout uniform clothing — contract per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Globe Manufacturing Co.,
d.b.a. Cairns Protective Clothing — Division of Fire, Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 666-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . 2264

. . . . . . . 2264
. . . . . . . 2264

. . . . . . . 2263

. . . . . . . 2264

Board of Control — Streets Division
SSi tack coat — amend BOC Res. 634-02 — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 664-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2264
Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Alonzo Avenue, 15605, (a.k.a. 4473 East 156th Street), (Ward 1) – Richard and Anne Price,
owners c/o Bernard Gaston, agent — appeal denied and adopted on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-246) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Buckeye Road, 12417-12419, (Ward 8) – Guy L. Moore, owner appeal withdrawn 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-123) . . . . . . . . . 2266
Clinton Avenue, 3103, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito, agent —
appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-248) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Clinton Avenue, 3105, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito, agent —
appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-249) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Clinton Avenue, 3107, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito, agent —
appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-250) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Clinton Avenue, 3109, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito, agent —
appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-251) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Clinton Avenue, 3111, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito, agent —
appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-252) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Clinton Avenue, 3119, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito, agent —
appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-253) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Davenport Avenue, 1613, (Ward 13) – Matthew Lombardy, agent — appeal denied and adopted
on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-262) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Euclid Avenue, 7000, (Ward 5) – H&K Kim, LLC, owner c/o Hea-Sung Kim — appeal postponed
to 11/4/02 on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-266) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Homeway Road, 18921, (Ward 20) – Daniel R. Warren, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
10/14/02 (Cal. 02-247) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Lakeshore Boulevard, 17600, (Ward 11) – Ante Susnjara, owner, and Sarah
Kennedy, prospective purchaser — appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-271) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Lorain Avenue, 10318-20, (Ward 19) – Joseph Maloney, owner — appeal postponed to 11/18/02
on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-160) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Lorain Avenue, 17510, (Ward 21) – Charles Piscatelli, owner, and Daniel Gerber,
prospective purchaser and Jeanette Glinski, agent — appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-270) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266
Puritas Avenue, 13527, (Ward 20) – Joseph Gaglione, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-244) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2266

2278

October 16, 2002

The City Record

Rocky River Drive, 4251-57, (Ward 21) – Vincent Gonzalez, owner — appeal heard on
10/14/02 (Cal. 02-269) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 11905, (Ward 9) – Tops Markets and the Superior and Lakeview Development
Company, owners, c/o Nancy Borchert, agent — appeal granted and adopted on 10/14/02
(Cal. 02-231) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont Avenue, 2395, (Ward 13) – Mustfa E. Ayad, owner, and ZiZi Properties, prospective
purchaser c/o Thomas Bell — appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-264) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Avenue, 6601, (Ward 12) – Dorothy Collins, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-182) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vine Court, 3110, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito, agent —
appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-261) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vine Court, 3112, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito, agent —
appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-260) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vine Court, 3114, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito, agent —
appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-259) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vine Court, 3116, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito, agent —
appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-258) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vine Court, 3118, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton, LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito, agent —
appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-257) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 145th Street, 4365, (Ward 20) – Charles Pavlik, owner — appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-272) .
West 14th Street, 3118, (Ward 13) – Mike Hornyak, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
10/14/02 (Cal. 02-207) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 32nd Street, 1513, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton, LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito,
agent — appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-254) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 32nd Street, 1515, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton, LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito,
agent — appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-255) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 32nd Street, 1517, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton, LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito,
agent — appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-256) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 32nd Street, 1519, (Ward 13) – West 32nd & Clinton, LLC, owner c/o Michael Caito,
agent — appeal heard on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-265) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 4th Street, 1260, (Ward 13) – 1260 West 4th Street LLC, owner c/o Raymond McGill,
agent — appeal granted and adopted on 10/14/02 (Cal. 02-205) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th Street, 3380, (Ward 17) – Donald McMahan, owner — appeal withdrawn on 10/14/02
(Cal. 02-225) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodbine Avenue, 3123, (Ward 13) – Andrew Denk, owner — appeal withdrawn on 10/14/02
(Cal. 02-192) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

27
. . . . . . . . . 2266

. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266
. . . . . . . . . 2266

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Benman Avenue, 7820, (Ward 12) – Valerie Tomlinson, owner — appeal to be heard on
10/28/02 (Cal. 02-281) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2265
Detroit Avenue, 10931, (Ward 19) – Horizon Developers, prospective purchaser
c/o Bill Hahn, agent — appeal to be heard on 10/28/02 (Cal. 02-273) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2265
East 116th Street, 3648, (Ward 3) – Henry Person, owner — appeal to be heard on 10/28/02 (Cal. 02-284) . . . . . . . 2265
East 93rd Street, 3111, (Ward 4) – Jamal Hanini, owner, and Nanja Sundram, agent — appeal
to be heard on 10/28/02 (Cal. 02-285). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2265
Huron Road, 750, (Ward 13) – SBC/Ameritech, owner c/o Karl Kressler, and Patrick Farrell,
agent — appeal to be heard on 10/28/02 (Cal. 02-279) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2265
Milverton Road, 14602, (Ward 4) – Blanche Foster, owner — appeal to be heard on 10/28/02 (Cal. 02-283) . . . . . . 2265
Rugby Road, 13513, (Ward 10) – Popie and Lizzie Howard, owners — appeal to be heard on
10/28/02 (Cal. 02-280) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2265
Scranton Road, 3307, (Ward 14) – Metro Lofts LLC, owner c/o Douglas Wahl, agent — appeal
to be heard on 10/28/02 (Cal. 02-282). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2265
Buckeye Area Development Corporation
Community Development Float loan — single-family lease-purchase homes — Buckeye Area
(O 1542-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2262
City of Cleveland Bids
Air compressor parts and labor — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per Ord. 989-02 — bid due November 6, 2002(advertised 10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002)
Altantek Model 85DSS printer / laminator — Department of Port Control — Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — per Ord. 1597-02 — bid due November
6, 2002(advertised 10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Card access and electronic security systems — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water — per Ord. 1388-2000 — bid due October 31, 2002(advertised 10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002) . .
Deicing chemicals — Department of Port Control — per Ord. 1258-02 — bid due November 1,
2002(advertised 10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equipment, shop and diagnostic — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per Ord. 1424-02 — bid due November 8, 2002
(advertised 10/16/2002 and 10/23/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire hydrants and parts — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per C.O.
Sec. 129.25 — bid due October 24, 2002(advertised 10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lumber — Department of Finance — per Ord. 1067-02 — bid due October 24,
2002(advertised 10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2279

. . . . . . . . 2268

. . . . . . . . 2268
. . . . . . . . 2268
. . . . . . . . 2268

. . . . . . . . 2268
. . . . . . . . 2268
. . . . . . . . 2268

The City Record

28

Meyer snow plow and spreader parts and laobr — Department of Public Service — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 910-02 — bid due October 24, 2002(advertised
10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office supplies — Department of Finance — per Ord. 1069-02 — bid due October
25, 2002(advertised 10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paper products — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power per Ord. 2357-01 — bid due November 13, 2002(advertised 10/16/2002 and 10/23/2002) . . . . . . . .
Pre-sort mail service — Department of Finance — per Ord. 1059-02 — bid due October 25,
2002(advertised 10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prisoner meals — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per Ord. 1102-02 bid due October 30, 2002(advertised 10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pump stations, labor and material to repair — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 346-02 — bid due October 23, 2002
(advertised 10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tires, new — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per
Ord. 917-02 — bid due October 24, 2002(advertised 10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transmissions, remanufactured auto/light truck — Department of Public Service — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 2028-01 — bid due November 7, 2002
(advertised 10/16/2002 and 10/23/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turbine emission testing — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public
Power — per Ord. 586-02 — bid due November 13, 2002(advertised 10/16/2002 and 10/23/2002)
Ward 21 park site improvements — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties Division of Research, Planning and Development — per Ord. 1748-99 and 1114-02 — bid
due October 23, 2002(advertised 10/9/2002 and 10/16/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

October 16, 2002

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2268
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2268
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2268
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2268
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2268

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2268
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2268

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2268
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2268

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2268

City Council
Duly Elected City Council Employees (F 2038-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2255
City Planning Commission
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing, curb ramps, median strips, intersections, bridge
approaches, utility box and casting adjustments — amend Ord. No. 2030-01 (O 1988-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . 2276
Clerk of Council
Duly Elected City Council Employees (F 2038-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2255
Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Property adoption agreement — E. 93rd St. & Chester Ave. N.E. corner — improvements
(O 2027-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2257
Cleveland Municipal School District
Cleveland Public Schools Fire Intern/Cadet Program — Martin Luther King Jr. Law
and Public Service Magnet School (R 1991-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Social service programs — amend Ord. 1119-02 (O 2030-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2258
Codified Ordinances
Air Quality Division — establishment — new Sects. 141.22 & 141.23 — repeal Sec. 141.21
— funds transfer — within Public Health Department — amend Ord. 469-02 —
compensation (O 1531-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2262
City residents employment — new Chapter 188 (O 2031-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2258
Cleveland Browns Stadium — licensing the image — new Section 133.172 (O 2028-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2257
Collective Bargaining Agreements
City, County and Waste Paper Drivers Union, Local No. 244 — Local 244 Seasonal (O 1986-02) . . . . . . . . . 2274
Communications
Willow Street Bridge Repair, Phase I-Temporary Repair and Lift — Mayor’s Emergency
Requisition/Purchase Orders (F 2017-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2255
Community Development
Buckeye Area Development Corp. — Community Development Float loan — single-family
lease-purchase homes — Buckeye Area (O 1542-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development programs — memoranda of understanding — public, private or
governmental agencies or entities (O 1725-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hurston Court/Cliffview West project — public improvement (O 2029-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Social service programs — amend Ord. 1119-02 (O 2030-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Social services — provide — Community Development — amend Ord. No. 914-01 (O 1539-02)

2280

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2262
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

2272
2257
2258
2271

October 16, 2002

The City Record

29

Condolences
Moore, Thomas M. (R 2053-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
Williams Materazzo, Patsy (R 2039-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
Congratulations
Anderson, Jesse O. (R 2045-02) . . . . . . . . . . .
Friedman, Jeffrey H. (R 2044-02) . . . . . . . . .
Pevec, Edward A. (Bishop) (R 2042-02) . . .
Ray’s Sausage Company, Inc. (R 2040-02) .
Sikora, Peter M. (Judge) (R 2046-02) . . . . .
St. John Nepomucene Church (R 2041-02) .
Whitthorne, Joseph (Elder) (R 2043-02). . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

2256
2256
2256
2256
2256
2256
2256

Convention Center
Appropriations — ($700,000) — Enterprise Funds (O 2024-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
Economic Development Department
Clean Ohio Assistance Funds for Phase II — amend Ord. No. 1549-02 — Ivanhoe and
E. 152nd St. (O 1985-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2274
Emergency Purchases
Willow Street Bridge Repair, Phase I-Temporary Repair and Lift — Mayor’s Emergency
Requisition (F 2017-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2255
Finance Department
Appropriations — ($700,000) — Enterprise Funds (O 2024-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase —
Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Public Safety (O 1845-02) . .
Office supplies — purchase — various divisions (O 1069-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pre-sort mail services, — purchase — various divisions (O 1059-02) . . . . . . . . . . .

.......
Public
.......
.......
.......

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2273
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2271
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2271

Funds
Air Quality Division — establishment — new Sects. 141.22 & 141.23 — repeal Sec. 141.21
— funds transfer — within Public Health Department — amend Ord. 469-02 —
compensation (O 1531-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2262
Grants
Clean Ohio Assistance Funds for Phase II — amend Ord. No. 1549-02 — Ivanhoe and
E. 152nd St. (O 1985-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2274
Health Department
Air Quality Division — establishment — new Sects. 141.22 & 141.23 — repeal Sec. 141.21
— funds transfer — within Public Health Department — amend Ord. 469-02 —
compensation (O 1531-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lead Poisoning Prevention Campaign — banner — Department of Public Health (Ward
8) (O 1995-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lead Poisoning Prevention Campaign — banner — Department of Public Health (Ward
(O 2035-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2262
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2276
17)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2261

House Bill
HB 274 — reject — right to carry concealed weapons (R 1990-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Liquor Permits
Broadview Rd., 3314 — withdraw objection (Ward 15) (R 1989-02) . . .
Denison Ave., 7120 — new (Ward 17) (F 2018-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 71st St., 1054 — objection (Ward 7) (R 1992-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 17121 — transfer (Ward 10) (F 2020-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Blvd., 17910 — objection withdraw (Ward 11) (R 2037-02) .
Lee Rd., 4139 — new (Ward 1) (F 2019-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Rd., 4139 — objection (Ward 1) (R 2036-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 11824 — transfer (Ward 19) (F 2021-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Ave., 11831 — new (Ward 3) (F 2022-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Ave., 11831 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1994-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2281

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 2269
. 2255
. 2270
. 2255
. 2262
. 2255
. 2261
. 2255
. 2255
. 2270

The City Record

30

October 16, 2002

Memoranda of Understanding
Community Development programs — public, private or governmental agencies or entities (O 1725-02) . . . . . 2272
Neighborhood Equity Funds
Sculpture Center — agreement — amend Ord. No. 606-02 — Ward 13 (O 2032-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2260
Office of Equal Opportunity
City residents employment — new Chapter 188 (O 2031-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2258
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Appropriations — ($700,000) — Enterprise Funds (O 2024-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Browns Stadium — licensing the image — new Section 133.172 (O 2028-02) . . . . . .
Cleveland Clinic Foundation — property adoption agreement — E. 93rd St. & Chester Ave.
N.E. corner — improvements (O 2027-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase — Public
Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Public Safety (O 1845-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sculpture Center — agreement — amend Ord. No. 606-02 — Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 2032-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Social service programs — amend Ord. 1119-02 (O 2030-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triangle Park Site Improvements (F 2023-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2257
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2257
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2273
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2260
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2258
. . . . . . . . . . . . 2255

Permits
Hilton Garden Inn — 1100 Carnegie L.P., General Partners — right-of-way — directional
sign (O 1718-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2272
RTA Information System in 47 specific areas — 47-Information Holders — right-of-way
— Central Business District (O 1373-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2262
Walk-As-One/Rock-As-One Walkathon — permit — The National Conference for Community and
Justice (O 2034-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2261
Personnel Department
City residents employment — new Chapter 188 (O 2031-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2258
City, County and Waste Paper Drivers Union, Local No. 244 — Local 244 Seasonal —
collective bargaining agreement (O 1986-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2274
Purchases and Supplies Division
Willow Street Bridge Repair, Phase I-Temporary Repair and Lift — Mayor’s Emergency
Requisition/Purchase Orders (F 2017-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2255
Recognition
Gepperth, James (R 2047-02)
Hall, Gladys V. (R 2051-02) .
Long, Betty (R 2050-02). . . . .
McNulty, Dennis (R 2048-02)
Russ, Dick (R 2049-02) . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

2256
2256
2256
2256
2256

Regional Transit Authority
RTA Information System in 47 specific areas — 47-Information Holders — permit —
right-of-way — Central Business District (O 1373-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2262
Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Cleveland Public Schools Fire Intern/Cadet Program — Martin Luther King Jr. Law
and Public Service Magnet School (R 1991-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
HB 274 — reject — right to carry concealed weapons (R 1990-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Predatory lending — urging administration — investigate, cease doing business,
financial or otherwise — banks, institutions refusing to provide loan (R 1993-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
Restricted Income Tax Fund
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase — Public
Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Public Safety (O 1845-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2273
Right-of-Way
Hilton Garden Inn — permit — 1100 Carnegie L.P., General Partners — directional sign (O 1718-02) . . . . . . . 2272
RTA Information System in 47 specific areas — 47-Information Holders — permit —
Central Business District (O 1373-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2262

2282

October 16, 2002

The City Record

31

Safety Department
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase — Public
Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Public Safety (O 1845-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2273
Social service programs — amend Ord. 1119-02 (O 2030-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2258
Salaries
Air Quality Division — establishment — new Sects. 141.22 & 141.23 — repeal Sec. 141.21
— funds transfer — within Public Health Department — amend Ord. 469-02 —
compensation (O 1531-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2262
City, County and Waste Paper Drivers Union, Local No. 244 — Local 244 Seasonal —
collective bargaining agreement (O 1986-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2274
Service Department
Forestwood Ave., Midvale Ave., W. 192nd St., W. 194th St., W. 198th St., & W. 202nd St.
— intention to vacate (R 1934-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heavy duty vehicles and apparatus — purchase, lease or lease to purchase — Public
Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Public Safety (O 1845-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hilton Garden Inn — permit — 1100 Carnegie L.P., General Partners — right-of-way —
directional sign (O 1718-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Historic Warehouse District, The — banners — special event (O 2033-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hurston Court/Cliffview West project — public improvement (O 2029-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lead Poisoning Prevention Campaign — banner — Department of Public Health (O 2035-02) .
Rock salt and chemical deicer — Division of Streets — amend Ord. 1374-02 (O 1938-02) . . . . . .
RTA Information System in 47 specific areas — 47-Information Holders — permit —
right-of-way — Central Business District (O 1373-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing, curb ramps, median strips, intersections, bridge
approaches, utility box and casting adjustments — amend Ord. No. 2030-01 (O 1988-02). . .
St. John’s Nopomucene Church — six banners — 100th Year Anniversary of the Church’s
School (O 1987-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 2268
. . . . . . . . . . 2273
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

2272
2260
2257
2261
2274

. . . . . . . . . . 2262
. . . . . . . . . . 2276
. . . . . . . . . . 2275

Sidewalks
Hurston Court/Cliffview West project — public improvement (O 2029-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2257
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing, curb ramps, median strips, intersections, bridge
approaches, utility box and casting adjustments — amend Ord. No. 2030-01 (O 1988-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . 2276
Stadium
Cleveland Browns Stadium — licensing the image — new Section 133.172 (O 2028-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2257
Statement of Work Acceptance
Triangle Park Site Improvements — Parks, Recreation and Properties (F 2023-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2255
Street Vacation
Forestwood Ave., Midvale Ave., W. 192nd St., W. 194th St., W. 198th St., & W. 202nd St.
— intention to vacate (R 1934-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2268
Streets Division
Rock salt and chemical deicer — amend Ord. 1374-02 (O 1938-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2274
Utilities Department
Building maintenance services — purchase — various divisions (O 2026-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carpeting, module wall systems and office furniture — purchase — various divisions (O 2025-02)
Cycle E water tanks — inspection and rehabilitation (O 1521-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electric aggregation program — approving amendments — Plan of Operation and Governance
(O 1884-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hurston Court/Cliffview West project — public improvement (O 2029-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . 2257
. . . . . . . . 2256
. . . . . . . . 2262
. . . . . . . . 2262
. . . . . . . . 2257

Ward 01
Lee Rd., 4139 — new — liquor permit (F 2019-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2255
Lee Rd., 4139 — objection — liquor permit (R 2036-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2261
Ward 03
Ray’s Sausage Company, Inc. — congratulation (R 2040-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
Union Ave., 11831 — new — liquor permit (F 2022-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2255
Union Ave., 11831 — objection (R 1994-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
Ward 05
Moore, Thomas M. — condolence (R 2053-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256

2283

The City Record

32

October 16, 2002

Ward 07
Cleveland Clinic Foundation — property adoption agreement — E. 93rd St. & Chester Ave.
N.E. corner — improvements (O 2027-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2257
E. 71st St., 1054 — objection (R 1992-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2270
Ward 08
Lead Poisoning Prevention Campaign — banner — Department of Public Health (O 1995-02) . . . . . . . . . . . 2276
Ward 09
Anderson, Jesse O. — congratulation (R 2045-02) . . . . . . .
Friedman, Jeffrey H. — congratulation (R 2044-02). . . . .
Hall, Gladys V. — recognition (R 2051-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miley, Linda L. — appreciation (R 2052-02) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sikora, Peter M. (Judge) — congratulation (R 2046-02) .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

2256
2256
2256
2256
2256

Ward 10
Clean Ohio Assistance Funds for Phase II — amend Ord. No. 1549-02 — Ivanhoe and
E. 152nd St. (O 1985-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2274
Euclid Ave., 17121 — transfer — liquor permit (Ward 10) (F 2020-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2255
Hurston Court/Cliffview West project — public improvement (O 2029-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2257
Whitthorne, Joseph (Elder) — congratulation (R 2043-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
Williams Materazzo, Patsy — condolence (R 2039-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
Ward 11
Lakeshore Blvd., 17910 — objection withdraw — liquor permit (R 2037-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2262
Pevec, Edward A. (Bishop) — congratulation (R 2042-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
Ward 12
Moore, Thomas M. — condolence (R 2053-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pevec, Edward A. (Bishop) — congratulation (R 2042-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. John Nepomucene Church — congratulation (R 2041-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. John’s Nopomucene Church — six banners — 100th Year Anniversary
School (O 1987-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

...............
...............
...............
of the Church’s
...............

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2256
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2275

Ward 13
Gepperth, James — recognition (R 2047-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hilton Garden Inn — permit — 1100 Carnegie L.P., General Partners — right-of-way —
directional sign (O 1718-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Historic Warehouse District, The — banners — special event (O 2033-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Long, Betty — recognition (R 2050-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McNulty, Dennis — recognition (R 2048-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pevec, Edward A. (Bishop) — congratulation (R 2042-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
RTA Information System in 47 specific areas — 47-Information Holders — permit —
right-of-way — Central Business District (O 1373-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Russ, Dick — recognition (R 2049-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sculpture Center — agreement — amend Ord. No. 606-02 — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 2032-02)
Walk-As-One/Rock-As-One Walkathon — permit — The National Conference for Community and
Justice (O 2034-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . 2256
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

2272
2260
2256
2256
2256

. . . . . . 2262
. . . . . . 2256
. . . . . . 2260
. . . . . . 2261

Ward 15
Broadview Rd., 3314 — withdraw objection (R 1989-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269
Ward 17
Denison Ave., 7120 — new — liquor permit (F 2018-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2255
Lead Poisoning Prevention Campaign — banner — Department of Public Health (O 2035-02) . . . . . . . . . . . 2261
Ward 19
Lorain Ave., 11824 — transfer — liquor permit (F 2021-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2255
Ward 20
Forestwood Ave., Midvale Ave., W. 192nd St., W. 194th St., W. 198th St., & W. 202nd St.
— intention to vacate (R 1934-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2268
Water Division
Cycle E water tanks — inspection and rehabilitation (O 1521-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2262
Weapons
HB 274 — reject — right to carry concealed weapons (R 1990-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2269

2284

