The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
June the Nineteenth, Two Thousand and Two

Mayor
Jane L. Campbell
President of Council
Frank G. Jackson
Clerk of Council
Valarie J. McCall
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
44
44
46
46
47
47
47
48
48
77
78

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Frank G. Jackson
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed..........................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell...........................................774 East 131st Street
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr........................................4326 Daisy Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
Matthew Zone ..........................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Terrell Cole, Executive Assistant
Erik Janas, Executive Assistant
Rodney Jenkins, Executive Assistant
David M. McGuirk, Executive Assistant
Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant
Henry Guzman, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44108
44112
44119
44105
44113
44109
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

DEPT. OF LAW – Subodh Chandra, Director, Galen L. Schuerlein, Acting
Chief Counsel, Room 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – Joel Nacion, Acting Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Cleo Henderson, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Darnell Brown, Acting Director,
1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Michael G. Konicek, Acting Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie
Avenue.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll, Acting Director, Mural
Building, 1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS: Correction – Robert Tasky, Commissioner, Cleveland
House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
Environment – Willie Bess, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Health – Dr. Wendy Johnson, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – James A. Draper, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police \ Edward F. Lohn, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES –James Glending,
Acting Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.

Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director, 3rd
Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Sharon Dumas, Commissioner.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES –Eduardo A. Romero,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Greg Huth, Acting Director,
Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, John E. Barnes, Jr., Director;
Mayor Jane L. Campbell, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President;
Rev. Earl Preston, Vice President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Secretary;
Members: Diane M. Downing, Matthew Dotson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Betsy Hruby,
Asst. Sec’y.; _ ______________, Director; Council President Frank G.
Jackson.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;
Members; Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver-Washington,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room
516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate
Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Richard F.
Horvath, President; Finance Director Betsy Hruby, Secretary; Council
President Frank G. Jackson.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law
Director Richard F. Horvath; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Richard F.
Horvath; Utilities Director Darnell Brown; Council President Frank G.
Jackson.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Christopher S. Ronayne,
Director; Anthony J. Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director, Richard F . Horvath;
Chairman; Finance Director Betsy Hruby; Council President Frank G.
Jackson; Councilman Dona Brady; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman;
Earl S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule,
Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEV ELA ND LA NDMA R KS COMMISS ION – Ro om 5 1 9 – Ri c hard
Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush,
James Gibans, Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen
Schuerlein, Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Dwayne J.
Simpson, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Emanuella Groves
12B
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan–Court Administrator,
Paul J. Mizerak–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Gregory F. Clifford–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 19, 2002

Vol. 89

No. 4619

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JUNE 17, 2002
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

MOTION

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00
A.M.—Aviation
&
Transportation
Committee:
Westbrook,
Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt, Dolan, Gordon, Reed,
Rybka.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

On the Motion of Council Member
Sweeney the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Lewis.

VALARIE J. McCALL
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, O’Malley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Scott, Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00
vices
Zone,
well,

P.M. — Health & Human SerCommittee: Britt, Chairman;
Vice Chairman; Cintron, ConGordon, Scott, Polensek.

1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Scott, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cintron, Jones,
Polensek,
Sweeney,
Westbrook,
Zone.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka,
Vice
Chairman,
Conwell,
Lewis,
O’Malley, Scott, Westbrook.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman; O’Malley, Reed, Sweeney.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

MAYOR’S APPOINTMENTS
File No. 1230-02.
June 14, 2002
The Honorable Frank Jackson
Council President
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, OH 44114
Dear Council President Jackson:
This letter advises you and City
Council that I am submitting names
for appointments to the Community
Relations Board, RTA Board, Gateway Economic Development Corporation Board and the Fair Housing
Board.
I am pleased to recommend the
following individuals for appointment to the Community Relations
Board:
1. Jesse Harris
New Appointment
Term expiration March 31, 2005

______________

Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, June 17, 2002.
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats,
Conwell, Gordon, Johnson, Jones,
Lewis, O’Malley, Polensek, Reed,
Rybka, Scott, Sweeney, Westbrook,
White, Zone.
Also present were Director Chandra, Director Baker, Acting Director
Brown, Director Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Acting Director
Shade, Acting Director Glending,
Acting Director Williams, Director
Romero,
Acting
Director
Huth,
Director Ronayne, Director Barnes,
and Chief Tame. Rodney Jenkins,
Executive Assistant to the Mayor,
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative
Affairs Liaison and John Goersmeyer, Assistant Press Secretary
were also present.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the Council Meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Rev. C.E.
Patterson, Senior Pastor of Our
Father’s House Church, located at
11228 Detroit Avenue in Ward 18.
Pledge of Allegiance.

1363

2. Charles Patton
New Appointment
Term expiration March 31, 2005
I am pleased to recommend the
following individual for appointment to the RTA Board:
1. Jesse O. Anderson
Reappointment
Term expiration March 5, 2005
I am pleased to recommend the
following individual for appointment to the Gateway Economic
Development Corporation Board:
1. Anthony C. Peebles
New Appointment
Term expiration May 31, 2007
I am pleased to recommend the
following individual for the appointment to the Fair Housing
Board:
1. Richard Lenard
New Appointment
Term expiration June 1, 2005
Resumes for each candidate are
attached. Once a date is determined
for the Mayoral Appointment Committee hearing, I ask that you
please place all the above stated

The City Record

4
appointments
on
the
agenda. Thank you.

committee

Sincerely,
JANE L. CAMPBELL
Mayor
Received.
Referred to Committee on Mayor’s
Appointments.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 1231-02.
From The Cleveland Clinic Foundation — 2001 Annual Report, Medical Miracles. Received.
File No, 1232-02.
From Cleveland-Cuyahoga County
Port Authority, Minutes of Board of
Directors Meeting. Received.
File No. 1233-02.
From the Board of Education
Cleveland Municipal School District
— Board Meeting Agenda — June 6,
2002. Received.
File No. 1234-02.
From the Office of Equal Opportunity re: “100 Black Men & Friends”
Summit 2002. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1235-02.
Re: New Application — 0000725 —
A & B Randa Inc. d.b.a. Family Discount, Inc. 1250 East 105th Street.
(Ward 8). Received.
File No. 1236-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 7169195 —
Raging Bull Tavern LLC d.b.a. Scarlet Rose, 2071 Broadview Road, first
floor and basement. (Ward 15).
Received.
File No. 1237-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 54130680005
— Madison Avenue Mini Mart, Inc.,
10500 Madison Avenue. (Ward 19).
Received.
File No. 1238-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership —
27940112225 — Euclid Aerie #2221 Of
The Fraternal, Order of Eagles, 532
East 185th Street, first and second
floors and basement. (Ward 11).
Received.
File No. 1239-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 08984671110 — BP Products
North America, Inc. d.b.a. BP Food
Mart 1109, 14008 Lorain Avenue.
(Ward 21). Received.
File No. 1240-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 0121160 — Ali Hader, Inc.
d.b.a. Sunny Food Mart, 14053 Lorain
Avenue. (Ward 21). Received.
File No. 1241-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 7556529 — Roudina, Inc.
d.b.a.
Chillies,
12200
St.
Clair
Avenue. (Ward 9). Received.
File No. 1242-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 1577821 — Club 3C d.b.a.
Club 3C, 3314 Broadview Road.
(Ward 15). Received.

File No. 1307-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 6549673 — 14720 Harvard,
Inc., d.b.a. Harvard Deli, 14720 Harvard Avenue. (Ward 1). Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 1243-02.
From the Department of Public
Utilities — Contract No. 57866 —
Cleaning and Lining 2001 — Area A,
completed and accepted April 7,
2002. Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1244-02—Alfred Grisanti.
Res. No. 1245-02—June Ware Guilford.
Res. No. 1246-02—Ruben E. Pope,
Jr.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1247-02—Bethany English
Lutheran Church — 100th Anniversary.
Res. No. 1248-02—Marion Morgan.
Res. No. 1249-02—Lou Tisler.
Res. No. 1250-02—Consuella Exum.
Res. No. 1251-02—Gay and Lesbian
Pride Month.
RESOLUTION OF RECOGNITION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1252-02—Greater Cleveland
Drug Court Advisory Board.
Res. No. 1253-02—U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development.
Res. No. 1254-02—Justin D. Jackson.
Res. No. 1255-02—Greater Bethel
A.M.E. Church.
Res. No. 1256-02—Joseph F. Patten.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1257-02.
By Council Members Scott, Coats,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to execute an easement granting to
Cleveland
Electric
Illuminating
Company certain easement rights in
property located in the area of
Lakeshore – East 72nd Street and
declaring said easement rights no
longer needed for public use.
Whereas, Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (“CEI”) has requested the Director of Public Utilities to convey certain easement
rights in property located in the are
of Lakeshore-East 72nd Street; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1364

June 19, 2002
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that an easement interest in
the following described property is
no longer needed for public use and
is more fully described in File No.
1257-02-A.
Section 2. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be for ingress
and egress to CEI property.
Section 3. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described, non-exclusive, easement interest to CEI at a price not
less than fair market value as determined by the Board of Control.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that
the easement shall include reasonable right-of-entry rights to the City;
that the easement shall be assignable; that the easement shall require
the grantee to indemnify the City,
provide reasonable insurance, maintain
any
grantee
improvements
located within the easement, and
pay any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made by
Official Deed of Easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public Utilities on behalf of the City of Cleveland. The Deed of Easement shall
contain such additional terms and
conditions as are required to protect
the interests of the City. The Directors of Public Utilities and Law are
authorized to execute such other
documents, including without limitation, contracts for right-of-entry,
as may be necessary.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1258-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and
Jackson
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of deicing chemicals, for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control, for a period
not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
a written requirement contract in
accordance with the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of two years of the necessary items of deicing chemicals
for use on runways, taxiways, and
ramps, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies

June 19, 2002
upon a unit basis for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than two years may be taken
if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 118284)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1259-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and
Jackson
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of towing services, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
a written requirement contract in
accordance with the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year for the necessary items of towing services in
the estimated sum of $131,400.00 to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which

The City Record
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 118286)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1260-02.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
upgrades of electrical vaults 5 and
7 at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, and authorizing the
Director of Port Control to enter into
contract for the making of such
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is determined to
make the public improvement of
constructing upgrades of electrical
vaults 5 and 7 at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, for the Department of Port Control, by contract duly let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into contract for the making of the
above public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis
for the improvement provided however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60
SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, and
from any funds or subfunds to
which are credited any federal
grants or federal PFC authorization,
for the above improvement and the
proceeds from the sale of any airport revenue bonds issued for a purpose
which
includes
the
above
improvement, Request No. 118198.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

1365

5
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees Aviation
and Transportation, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1261-02.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent to the City of Cleveland to
replace the surface on the Broadway
Avenue Bridge over the Norfolk &
Southern Railroad tracks.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is
given to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio (the
“Director
of
Transportation”)
to
make the following improvements in
accordance with the plans, specifications and estimates approved by
the Director of Transportation: The
replacement of the surface on the
Broadway Avenue Bridge over the
Norfolk & Southern Railroad tracks
(the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City does hereby give its consent to the Improvement and its administration by the
Director of Transportation, provided
that this ordinance shall not be construed to impose any financial obligation on the City for such Improvement. However, the City agrees to
assume and contribute 100% of the
cost of any items included in the
construction contract, at the request
of the City, which are determined by
the Director of Transportation not
be to eligible or made necessary by
the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into
such
agreements
with
the
Director of Transportation as are
necessary to complete the planning
and construction of the Improvement.
Section 4. That upon completion of
the Improvement, the City thereafter
will:
(a) Keep the affected highway
open to traffic at all times;
(b) Maintain the Improvement in
accordance with the provisions of
the statutes relating thereto and
make ample financial and other provisions for such maintenance;
(c) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the Director of
Transportation and hold said rightof-way inviolate for public highway
purposes
and
permit
no
signs,
posters, billboards, roadside stands
or other private installations within
the limits of the right-of-way;
(d) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices in accordance with
the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices pursuant to the provisions of Section 4511.11 and related sections of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
(e) Regulate parking by maintaining existing parking restrictions
within the limits of the Improvement.
Section 5. a) That all existing
streets
and
public
rights-of-way
within the City which are necessary
for the Improvement shall be made
available therefor.

6
b) That the City agrees that all
right-of-way
required
for
the
described project will be acquired
and/or made available in accordance with current State and Federal regulations. The City also
understands that right-of-way costs
include eligible utility costs.
c) That arrangements have been
or will be made with and agreements obtained from all public utility companies whose lines or structures
will
be
affected
by
the
Improvement, that said companies
have agreed to make any and all
necessary rearrangements in such
manner as to be clear of any construction called for by the plans for
the Improvement and that said companies have agreed to make such
necessary rearrangements immediately after notification by the City
or the State of Ohio.
d) That the City, at its own
expense, shall make all rearrangements of water mains, service lines,
fire hydrants, valve boxes, sanitary
sewers or other City-owned utilities
and appurtenances thereto which do
not comply with the provisions of
ODOT Directive No. 38-A, whether
inside or outside the corporate limits of the City, as may be necessary
to conform to the Improvement, and
that said rearrangements shall be
done at such time as requested by
the State.
e) That the construction, reconstruction and rearrangement of all
utilities shall be done in such a
manner as not to interfere unduly
with the operations of the contractor or contractors constructing the
Improvement, and all backfilling of
trenches made necessary by such
utility rearrangement shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the ODOT Construction
and
Material
Specifications
and
shall be subject to approval by the
State.
f) That the City hereby agrees to
accept responsibility for any and all
damages or claims for which it is
legally liable arising from the negligence of its officers, employees or
agents in the performance of the
City’s obligations made or agreed to
in this section.
g) That stop signs affecting the
movement of traffic on any street
within the limits of the Improvement shall be removed and no stop
signs will be erected on same except
at
intersections
with
another
through highway where traffic does
not warrant the installation of a
traffic control signal but where the
warrants for a “Four-Way Stop” as
provided in the aforesaid Manual
are met.
h) That no rule or regulation may
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle or vehicle load permitted by the
Ohio Revised Code to use a public
highway. Any existing rule or regulation so restricting road usage is
hereby rescinded.
i) That the installation of all utility facilities on the right-of-way
shall conform with the requirements
of Title 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT
Utilities Manual.
Section 6. That the Council of the
City hereby requests the State to
proceed with the Improvement.
Section 7. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to transmit
to the Director of Transportation
three (3) certified copies of this
ordinance immediately upon the taking effect thereof, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding
with the Improvement.

The City Record

June 19, 2002

Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
Public Service, Finance.

Ord. No. 1262-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various vehicles and
equipment, including aftermarket
material and installation for a complete vehicle and including labor
and materials necessary for vehicle
rehabilitation, for the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
a written requirement contract in
accordance with the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year for the necessary items of various vehicles and
equipment, including aftermarket
material and installation for a complete vehicle and including labor
and materials necessary for vehicle
rehabilitation, as such vehicles and
equipment are described in File No.
1262-02-A, in the estimated sum of
$8,370,900.00, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
a year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105900)
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance
may be made through cooperative
agreements using state procedures.
The Director of Finance may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to effectuate
such cooperative efforts and may
enter into contract with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.

Ord. No. 1263-02.
By Council Members Zone, Britt,
Brady,
Jones,
O’Malley,
Cintron,
Polensek and Coats.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 411.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1684-76,
passed June 29, 1976, relating to
mobile basketball hoops.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 411.04 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No.1684-76, passed June
29, 1976, is hereby amended to read
as follows:

1366

Section 411.04 Toy Vehicles and
Games on Streets; Seizure and Disposal of Mobile Basketball Hoops
(a) No person upon roller skates,
or riding in or by means of any
coaster,
toy
vehicle
or
similar
device, shall go upon a roadway
except while crossing a street at a
crosswalk and except upon streets
set aside as play streets when
authorized as such.
(b) No person shall fly a kite or
play any game of ball, including
playing or using mobile or moveable
basketball hoops, or other game on
any street unless the same has been
set aside for playground purposes.
(c) In addition to the penalties set
forth in section 403.99 of these codified ordinances, any mobile or moveable basketball hoop or any equipment or device used as a moveable
or mobile basketball hoop, that is
used in the commission of a violation of division (b) of this section,
shall, upon a second or subsequent
offense, be declared to be contraband and shall be seized and disposed of in accordance with Section
2933.43 of the Revised Code.
Section 2. That existing Section
411.04 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed
June 29, 1976 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Law; Committees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance.

June 19, 2002
Ord. No. 1264-02.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Finance to
enter into contract with the Cleveland Board of Education to conduct
recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs for the benefit of
school children during the 2002-2003
school year.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1025-A-95, passed June 28, 1995,
tax revenues from levying the parking facility tax and increases in the
motor vehicle lessor tax and the
admissions tax can be used to fund
recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs within the Cleveland School system; and
Whereas, the Joint Board established by Ordinance No. 1025-A-95
has recommended that a portion of
the tax proceeds be used to fund a
number of recreational, cultural and
extracurricular programs for City
school children during the 2002-2003
school year, including dance, drama,
instrumental, vocal, cheerleading,
aquatic, sports and academic enrichment programs; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Finance are hereby authorized
to enter into contract with the Board
of Education of the Cleveland City
School District to conduct various
recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs for the benefit of
City school children, in accordance
with the program description contained in File No. 1264-02-A, for an
amount not to exceed $2,000,000,
payable from the fund or funds to
which are credited the proceeds of
the taxes levied pursuant to Ordinance No. 1025-A-95, passed June 28,
1995, under such terms and conditions as are acceptable to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1265-02.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the

The City Record
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-25-035 as
more fully described below, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-25-035
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
143 and part of Sublot No. 142 in the
Ellsworthy-Helwick Company Bungalow Park Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 379 and 380 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 43 of Maps,
Page
26
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
Lakeview Road, N.E., at the Southwesterly corner of land conveyed to
George P. Dalton and Lizzy Dalton
by deed dated April 3, 1911 and
recorded in Volume 1295, Page 541
of Cuyahoga County Records, thence
Easterly along the Southerly line of
land so conveyed to the Easterly
line of said Sublot No. 142, thence
Southerly along the Easterly line of
said Sublots Nos. 142 and 143 to the
Northerly
line
of
Thornwood
Avenue, N.E., thence Westerly along
said Northerly line of Thornwood
Avenue, N.E., 80-2600 feet to the
Easterly end of a turnout between
said Northerly line of Thornwood
Avenue, N.E., and the Northeasterly
line of Lakeview Road, N.E., thence
Northwesterly along said turnout on
a curved line deflecting to the right
and having a radius of 30 feet, a distance of 34-9200 feet to the Northwesterly end of said turnout, thence
Northwesterly along said Northeasterly line of Lakeview Road, N.E., 337600 feet to an angle in said line,
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of Lakeview Road, N.E., 15-3000
feet to the place of beginning, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
NOTE: Deed conveys caption and
more land.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 111-05-037 as
more fully described below to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 111-05-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
17 in the Ambler Realty Company’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 364, as shown

1367

7
by the recorded plat in Volume 45
of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40 feet front
on the Easterly side of East 120th
Street and extending back of equal
width 100 feet deep, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 120-02-101 as
more fully described, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 120-02-101
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 124 and the Westerly 4
feet from front to rear of Sublot No.
123 in J.H. Wade and Other’s ReAllotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 386 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 33
of Maps, Page 18 of Cuyahoga County Records and together forming a
parcel of land 50 feet front on the
Northerly side of Orville Avenue,
N.E., and extending back of equal
width 187 feet as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways or zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 120-04-080 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 120-04-080
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
387 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning in the Westerly line of
East
115th
Street
(formerly
Rosedale Street) at a point 240 feet
Southerly from its intersection with
the
Southerly
line
of
Superior
Avenue, N.E., said beginning point
being also the Southerly corner of
premises conveyed to Sarah Segal
by deed dated June 14, 1912 and
recorded in Volume 1394, Page 443
of Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
the premises so conveyed to Sarah
Segal to the Southwesterly corner
thereof, in the Westerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to Gertie
Jane Howe by deed dated October
11, 1889 and recorded in Volume 461,
Page
144
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, 150 feet; thence Northerly
along the Westerly line of land so
conveyed to Gertie Jane Howe, 40
feet; thence Easterly parallel with
the first described course 150 feet to
the Westerly line of East 115th
Street; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of East 115th Street,
40 feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the

The City Record

8
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 120-09-085 as
more fully described below, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 120-09-085
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
41 in Knowlton Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 387, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 14 of Maps, Page 44
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 35 feet front on the Southerly
side of Knowlton Avenue, N.E., (formerly Knowlton Street) and extending back of equal width 132.5 feet
deep, as appears by said plat.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.

Section 11. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 12. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 13. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of

June 19, 2002
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.

Ord. No. 1266-02.
By Council Members Gordon, Lewis, White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting new Sections 138.01 to 138.07 relating to the establishment of the Department of Building and Housing; to amend Sections
137.02 and 3103.01, as amended and enacted by various ordinances; to repeal Sections 137.03, 137.04, 137.16, and
137.161 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended and enacted by various ordinances; to
provide the transfer of the sum of Two Million Seven Hundred Seventy Thousand Eight Hundred Dollars from
the Department of Community Development to the Department of Building and Housing, of the General Fund;
and to amend Sections 2, 35, 38 and 39 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, relating to compensation for
various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, upon the concurrence of the Board of Control, as required by Sections 77 and 79 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, the Department of Building and Housing is established, and for such purposes the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are supplemented by enacting new Sections 138.01 to 138.08 thereof,
to read, respectively as follows:
CHAPTER 138
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Section 138.01 Establishment
Pursuant to the authority of the Charter there is established, a Department of Building and Housing, to be controlled and administered by a Director of Building and Housing subject to the provisions of the Charter and these
Codified Ordinances, and to the direction of the Mayor. The Director may appoint a Deputy Director who shall
exercise all powers of the Director during the Director’s absence or disability.
The Deputy Director shall be
appointed and may be removed by the Director in accordance with the Civil Service provisions of the Charter.
As used in this Chapter, “Director” means the Director of Building and Housing.
Wherever elsewhere in the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland there appears the phrase “Division of
Building” or “Division of Housing” or “Division of Building and Housing” it shall be deemed to mean Department
of Building and Housing for the purpose of construing such sections.
Section 138.02 Duties of Director of Building and Housing
The Director of Building and Housing shall administer the Department of Building and Housing and supervise
the work of the divisions established in the Department; administer and enforce the laws and ordinances of the
City relating to buildings and the housing of its inhabitants; coordinate the functioning of the divisions of the
Department with other departments, divisions, and offices of the City, with Federal, State and County offices and
agencies; administer and enforce the ordinances of the City relating to the use of land, the construction and occupancy of buildings and structures; issue all building permits and supervise the inspection of all work done pursuant to those permits; issue all certificates of occupancy as authorized and required by the Codified Ordinances
dealing with structures; issue and have served upon the owner or violator orders requiring the repair or removal
of all buildings, structures or conditions not in compliance with the codes pertaining to those buildings, structures or conditions and all requirements of law or ordinances relating to the maintenance, use or occupancy of
dwellings in a safe, sanitary and fit condition for human habitation; initiate and carry forth proceedings to compel compliance with such codes and requirements; and do and perform such other duties as may from time to
time be required of the Director by the Mayor, or by ordinance of Council.
Wherever else in the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland there appears the phrase “Commissioner of
Building” or “Commissioner of Housing” or “Commissioner of Building and Housing” it shall be deemed to mean
Director of Building and Housing for the purposes of construing such sections.
Section 138.03 Division of Construction Permitting
There is established in the Department of Building and Housing a Division of Construction Permitting to be
administered and controlled by the Commissioner of Construction Permitting, subject to the provisions of the Charter and ordinances of the City and to the Director of Building and Housing.

1368

June 19, 2002

The City Record

9

Section 138.04 Duties of Commissioner of Construction Permitting
The Commissioner of Construction Permitting shall administer and enforce the provisions of the ordinances of
the City of Cleveland relating to construction, reconstruction, and repair on all buildings, structures and dwellings
and to the use and occupancy of all buildings and structures as human habitation; supervise the issuance of all
building permits and the inspection of all work done pursuant to those permits; supervise the issuance of certificates of occupancy; maintain a register of all building permits and a record of all compliance orders; assist
the Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals and the Board of Zoning Appeals in presenting facts and
technical advice concerning matters before such Boards; and perform such other duties as may from time to time
be required by ordinance or by the Director of Building and Housing.
Section 138.05 Division of Code Enforcement
There is hereby established in the Department of Building and Housing a Division of Code Enforcement to be
administered and controlled by the Commissioner of Code Enforcement, subject to the provisions of the Charter
and the ordinances of the City.
Secion 138.06 Duties of the Commissioner of Code Enforcement
The Commissioner of Code Enforcement shall administer and enforce the provisions of the ordinances of the
City of Cleveland relating to construction, reconstruction, and the repair on all buildings, structures and dwelling
and to the use, maintenance and occupancy of all buildings and structures as human habitation; cause inspections to be made regularly in order to determine compliance with the code of the City of Cleveland pertaining
to such structures; supervise the inspection of all work done pursuant to the issuance of all building permits;
supervise the issuance and service of orders requiring the repair or removal of all buildings, structures or conditions not in compliance with the codes pertaining to those buildings, structures conditions and all requirements
of law or ordinances relating to the maintenance, use or occupancy of dwellings in a safe, sanitary and fit condition for human habitation; supervise the initiation and progress of proceedings to compel compliance with such
codes and requirements; assist the Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals and the Board of Zoning
Appeals in presenting facts and technical advice concerning matter before such Boards; and perform such other
duties as may from time to time be required by ordinance or by the Director of Building and Housing.
Section 138.07 City Demolition Contracts
Notwithstanding any provision of the Codified Ordinances to the contrary, the Director of Building and Housing may enter into contracts for the boarding-up and/or demolition of structures which are found to be unsafe
structures and declared public nuisances pursuant to the provisions of Section 3103.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Should the Director of Building and Housing find that an unsafe structure constitutes an emergency situation,
then the Director of Building and Housing may enter into a contract for the boarding-up and/or demolition of
such an unsafe structure without advertising and without competitive bidding.
Section 2. That, upon the concurrence of the Board of Control, as required by Sections 77 and 79 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, the Division of Building and Housing is discontinued and Sections 137.03, 137.04, and
137.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 1241-80, passed July 31,
1980, and Section 137.161, as enacted by Ordinance No. 332-a-87, passed March 23, 1987, are repealed.
Section 3. That Section 137.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1289-66, passed June 20, 1966, and 3103.01 of said Codified Ordinances, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1116-A-85, passed
February 10, 1986, are amended to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 137.02 Duties of Director of Community Development
The Director of Community Development shall administer the Department of Community Development and supervise the work of the several divisions established in the Department; administer the laws and ordinances of the
City relating to Community Development; coordinate the functioning of the several divisions of the Department
with other departments, divisions and offices of the City, with Federal, State and County offices and agencies;
supervise the carrying forward of the development, redevelopment, renewal, rehabilitation and conservation of the
City in conformity with the General Plan of the City; manage and supervise all projects undertaken by the City
for the redevelopment, renewal, rehabilitation or conservation of slum, blighted, deteriorating or deteriorated areas,
including the relocation of occupants displaced by this or other governmental action, make application to the
appropriate agencies of the Federal government and other public bodies on behalf of the City, the Local Public
Agency, for financial assistance if it is determined that financial assistance is necessary; and do and perform
such other duties as may from time to time be required of him by the Mayor, or by ordinance of Council.
Section 3103.01 Powers and Duties of Director of Building and Housing
(a) General Duties. The Director of Building and Housing with the assistance of officials of other divisions of
the City having jurisdiction, is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of OBC and this building Code, to administer and direct the Department of Building and Housing and to establish policies, procedures
and standards for its efficient operation, to review plans and specifications, to issue building permits and certificates, to conduct inspections, to issue rules and regulations for the operation of the Department consistent
with OBC and this Building Code, to maintain records and make reports, and to perform such other duties and
services as may be necessary to execute the provisions of OBC and this Building Code, and be consistent herewith, or as may be imposed upon the Director by law or by ordinance or by direction of the Mayor.
(b) Deputy. The Director shall designate as his deputy a qualified employee in the Department who shall exercise all powers of the Director during his absence or disability. The Deputy Director shall be appointed and may
be removed by the Director in accordance with the Civil Service provisions of the charter.
(c) Records. The Director shall keep, or cause to be kept, permanent, accurate records of all of the business
of the Department. The records of the Department shall be open to public inspection during business hours as
designated therefor by the Director.
(d) Acknowledgments and Reports. The Director shall promptly acknowledge receipt of all official communications, notices, and reports. The Director shall prepare annual reports as mandated or required by the Mayor.
(e) Cooperation of Other City Departments. The officials of other City departments and divisions having jurisdiction or control of construction, use or occupancy under the provisions of this Building Code or under other
applicable laws, ordinances, rules, or regulations, shall cooperate and assist in the enforcement of the provisions

1369

The City Record

10

June 19, 2002

of OBC or this Building Code. Any City employee empowered to make inspections of buildings, structures or
premises, shall promptly report to the administrative officer having jurisdiction any violation of OBC or this Building Code perceived in the performance of his or her duties.
Any administrative officer directed or empowered to act under any provision of OBC or this Building Code shall
act promptly, and without unnecessary delay.
(f) Authority to Act. Whenever in OBC or this Building Code an Administrative Officer is directed or empowered to perform duties or exercise authority it shall be interpreted to mean such administrative officer or his
duly authorized representative or inspector.
Section 4. That Section 137.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1289-66, passed June 20, 1966, and 3103.01 of said Codified Ordinances, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1116-A-85, passed
February 10, 1986, are repealed.
Section 5. That concurrence of the Board of Control shall be evidenced by a certified copy of the resolution of
the Board of Control duly filed with the Clerk of Council by the Secretary of the Board of Control immediately
upon the adoption of such concurring resolution, which resolution shall be attached by the Clerk of Council to
this ordinance.
Section 6. That any references contained in the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the Division of
Building and Housing, the Division of Building or the Division of Housing shall be amended to read “Department of Building and Housing.” Also, any references contained in the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, to the Commissioner of Building and Housing, Commissioner of Building or Commissioner of Housing shall
be amended to read “Director of Building and Housing” consistent with Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 7. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized and directed, when publishing the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and amendments thereto, to change all references to the Division of Building and Housing, the Division of Building or the Division of Housing to read “Department of Building and Housing” and to
change all references to the Commissioner of Building and Housing, Commissioner of Building or Commissioner
of Housing to read “Director of Building and Housing” consistent with this ordinance.
Section 8. That the sum of $2,770,800 is transferred as follows:
GENERAL FUND
GENERAL GOVERNMENT

Department of Community Development

FROM

TO

Division of Building and Housing
I Personnel and Related Expenses
II Other Expenses

$2,548,400
222,400

Total Department of Community Development

$2,770,800

Department of Building and Housing
Building and Housing Administration
I Personnel and Related Expenses
II Other

$

403,880
35,920

$

1,083,760
94,240

I Personnel and Related Expenses
II Other

$

1,060,760
92,240

Total Department of Building and Housing

$

2,770,800

$

2,770,800

Division of Code Enforcement
I Personnel and Related Expenses
II Other
Division of Construction Permitting

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$2,770,800

Section 9. That Sections 2, 35, 38 and 39 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, are amended to read,
respectively, as follows:
Section 2. Secretary to the Mayor, Directors of Departments, Planning Director, Executive Director Community
Relations Board, four Executive Assistants to the Mayor.
(a) That the salary of the Secretary to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor at not less than $50,795.78 and
not more than $159,716.07 per annum.
(b) That the salary of the Directors of Law, Finance, Public Utilities, Economic Development, Public Safety,
Parks, Recreation and Properties, Public Service, Public Health, Personnel and Human Resources, Community
Development, Building and Housing, Aging, Consumer Affairs, the Planning Director, and the Executive Director
of the Community Relations Board and four (4) Executive Assistants to the Mayor shall be fixed by the Mayor
at not less than $50,795.81 and not more than $153,956.99 per annum.
(c) That the salary of the Director of Port Control shall be fixed by the Mayor at not less than $100,000.00 and
not more than $200,000.00 per annum.

1370

June 19, 2002

The City Record

11

Section 35. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.

Airport Maintenance Manager...............................................
Airport Operations Manager...................................................
Airport Safety Chief..................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Administrative
Services.......................................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Building and
Housing.......................................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Cleveland Public
Power...........................................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Code Enforcement................
Assistant Commissioner of Construction
Permitting..................................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Motor Vehicles
Maintenance..............................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Neighborhood
Development..............................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Neighborhood
Revitalization...........................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Neighborhood
Services.......................................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Streets.......................................
Assistant Commissioner of Waste Collection
and Disposal.............................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Water Pollution
Control.........................................................................................
Assistant Director of Community Relations
Board...........................................................................................
Assistant Income Tax .............................................................
Assistant Superintendent of Electric Transmission
and Distribution......................................................................
Building and Housing Executive Assistant.....................
Chief of Air Pollution Enforcement....................................
Chief of Air Pollution Engineering....................................
Chief of Air Pollution Information Systems....................
Chief of Air Pollution Monitoring.......................................
Chief Civil Service Examiner................................................
Chief of Pharmacy Services...................................................
Chief of Pumping.......................................................................
Chief of Water Distribution...................................................
Chief Training Officer..............................................................
City Hall Custodian...................................................................
Community Development Executive Assistant................
Contract Compliance Officer...................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Accounts......................................
Deputy Commissioner of Air Pollution Control..............
Deputy Commissioner of Airports........................................
Deputy Commissioner of Convention Center
and Stadium..............................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Convention Center....................
Deputy Commissioner of Maintenance...............................
Deputy Commissioner of Park and Urban
Forestry......................................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Parks and Urban
Forestry/Golf Courses and Cemeteries..........................
Deputy Commissioner of Recreation...................................
Director of Public Health Nurses.........................................
Fair Housing Administrator...................................................
General Manager of Administrative Services..................
Office of Professional Standards Administrator.............
Manager of Human Resources Program
Planning and Management.................................................
Personnel Administrator..........................................................
Senior Budget and Management Analyst..........................
Superintendent of Industrial Claims...................................
Superintendent of Motorized Equipment...........................
Utilities Comptroller..................................................................

Minimum

Maximum

$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$77,853.06
$77,853.06
$77,853.06

$26,273.96

$77,853.06

$26,273.96

$77,853.06

$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$77,853.06
$77,853.06

$26,273.96

$77,853.06

$26,273.96

$77,853.06

$26,273.96

$77,853.06

$26,273.96

$77,853.06

$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$77,853.06
$77,853.06

$26,273.96

$77,853.06

$26,273.96

$77,853.06

$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$77,853.06
$63,842.49

$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$22,333.40
$22,333.40
$22,333.40
$22,333.40
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$63,842.49
$77,853.06
$69,937.49
$69,937.49
$69,937.49
$69,937.49
$61,683.57
$77,853.06
$77,000.00
$80,000.00
$61,683.57
$61,683.57
$77,853.06
$61,683.57
$71,864.36
$71,864.36
$71,864.36

$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$71,864.36
$71,864.36
$71,864.36

$26,273.96

$71,864.36

$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$31,500.00
$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$71,864.36
$71,864.36
$71,864.36
$76,720.73
$77,853.06
$61,683.57

$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$71,864.36
$71,864.36
$68,181.31
$61,683.57
$61,683.57
$77,853.06

Section 38. That the appointing authority shall fix the salaries in the following classifications in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1371

12

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.

The City Record

City Comptroller..........................................................................
City Treasurer..............................................................................
Chief Technology Officer.........................................................
Commissioner of Accounts......................................................
Commissioner of Administrative
Services – Community Development................................
Commissioner of Architecture................................................
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses....................
Commissioner of Building and Housing............................
Commissioner of Burke Airport............................................
Commissioner of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport...........................................
Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power........................
Commissioner of Code Enforcement....................................
Commissioner of Construction Permitting ........................
Commissioner of Convention Center....................................
Commissioner of Emergency Medical Services...............
Commissioner of Engineering and Construction............
Commissioner of Environment...............................................
Commissioner of Health...........................................................
Commissioner of House of Corrections..............................
Commissioner of Information Systems Services.............
Commissioner of Motor Vehicle Maintenance..................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Development..................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Revitalization................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Services...........................
Commissioner of Park Maintenance and
Properties...................................................................................
Commissioner of Parking Facilities....................................
Commissioner of Printing and Reproduction...................
Commissioner of Property Management............................
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies.........................
Commissioner of Recreation...................................................
Commissioner of Research/Planning
and Development.....................................................................
Commissioner of Streets...........................................................
Commissioner of Traffic Engineering and
Parking.......................................................................................
Commissioner of Utilities Engineering..............................
Commissioner of Utilities Fiscal Control..........................
Commissioner of Waste Collection and Disposal...........
Commissioner of Water............................................................
Commissioner of Water Pollution Control........................
Deputy Director Department of Building and
Housing.......................................................................................
Income Tax Administrator......................................................
Manager of Internal Audit.....................................................

June 19, 2002
Minimum

Maximum

42,758.15
42,758.15
45,000.00
40,314.82

120,096.28
110,858.11
135,000.00
115,043.98

40,314.82
42,758.15
40,314.82
45,201.46
40,314.92

115,043.98
128,635.07
106,194.45
127,674.68
106,194.45

42,758.15
45,201.46
42,758.15
42,758.15
45,201.46
42,758.15
45,201.46
42,758.15
45,021.46
40,314.82
52,734.82
40,314.82
40,314.82
42,758.15
42,758.15

128,635.07
127,674.68
120,096.28
120,096.28
113,868.17
120,096.28
127,674.68
120,096.28
127,674.68
106,194.45
127,674.68
115,043.98
106,194.45
110,858.11
110,858.11

42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.82
45,201.46
42,758.15
42,758.15

128,635.07
115,043.98
115,043.98
127,674.68
110,858.11
128,635.07

40,314.82
40,314.82

115,043.98
115,043.98

42,758.15
42,758.15
40,314.82
40,314.82
45,201.46
40,314.82

110,858.11
106,194.45
106,194.45
115,043.98
150,000.00
115,043.98

36,590.39
42,758.15
40,314.82

124,000.00
120,096.28
106,194.45

Section 39. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Administration Bureau Manager...........................................
Assistant Manager – Applications Development
and Technical Support..........................................................
Assistant Manager – Data Processing Operations........
Assistant to Manager of Planning......................................
Deputy Commissioner of Cleveland
Public Power............................................................................

Minimum

Maximum

$40,314.82

$115,043.98

$46,224.91
$46,224.91
$46,224.91

$108,742.86
$100,378.05
$100,378.05

$46,224.91

$100,378.05

Section 10. That existing Sections 2, 35, 38 and 39 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, are repealed.
Section 11. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Personnel and Human Resources, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Legislation, Finance.

1372

June 19, 2002
Ord. No. 1267-02.
By Council Members Jackson and
Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Gallup and Nursery
Avenues and East 66th and East
70th Streets to Cleveland Housing
Network, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 123-19-060,
123-20-041, 125-32-118 and 125-33-059,
as more fully described below, to
Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 123-19-060
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
53 in Jabesh Gallup’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 282, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page
52 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 19-6/12 feet front on the Northwesterly side of Gallup Avenue, S.E.,
118 feet deep on the Southwesterly
line, 142 feet deep on the Easterly
line, and 111-6/12 feet wide in the
rear, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 123-20-041
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
23 in N.P. and P.D. Glazier’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 324, and shown by
the recorded plat of said Allotment
in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 40 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records.
Said
Sublot has a frontage of 33 feet on
the
Westerly
side
of
Nursery
Avenue,
S.E.,
(formerly
Nursery
Street) and extends back between
parallel line 133 feet, as appears by
said plat.
P. P. No. 125-32-118
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 29 and all of Sublot No.
30 in T.G. Clewell and T.M. Irving
Re-Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 322, as

The City Record
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 80 feet
front on the Westerly side of East
66th Street and extending back 125
feet, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 125-33-059
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
90 in Jabesh Gallup’s Subdivision, of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 322, as shown by the recorded plat of said Subdivision in Volume 6 of Maps, Page 16 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 40 feet
front on the Westerly side of East
70th Street (formerly Homewood
Street), and extending back between
parallel lines 125 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1268-02.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 111th Street and
Forest and Soika Avenues to Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and

1373

13
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 128-26-030,
128-26-038, 128-26-089 and 129-27-032,
as more fully described below, to
Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-26-030
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly part of Sublot No. 1, and
all of Sublot No. 2 in the Marek Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 435, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 44
of Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records. Said Northerly part of
said Sublots Nos. 1 and 2 in the
Marek Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 435
together from a parcel of land 46.2
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 111th Street and extending
140.18 feet deep on the Northerly
line and 140.24 feet deep on the
Southerly line, and 46.2 feet wide in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 128-26-038
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
120 in Harvey Rice Jr.’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 427, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps,
Page
42
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 50 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 111th
Street (formerly Merrell Street) and
extending back of equal width 166
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
P. P. No. 128-26-089
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 4 and the Northerly 40
feet of Sublot No. 5, in the Marek
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 435, place of
beginning 44 of Maps, Page 28 of
Cuyahoga County Records, bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning in the Northeasterly
corner of Sublot No. 5; thence
Southerly along the Easterly line of
said Sublot No. 5, 40 feet; thence
Westerly parallel with the Northerly line of Forest Avenue, S.E., 40
feet to the Easterly line of Sublot
No. 4; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 4 to
the Northerly line of Forest Avenue,
S.E., thence Westerly along the
Northerly line of Forest Avenue,

14
S.E., 46 feet to the Southwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 4; thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
Sublot No. 4 (which is the Easterly
line of East 111th Street), 140 feet
to the Northwesterly corner of said
Sublot No. 4; thence Easterly 86 feet
to
the
place
of
beginning,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P. P. No. 129-27-032
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as Sublot No. 49 in
the Frank Soika Subdivision No. 2
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lots Nos. 436 and 437, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 47
of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40 feet front
on the Northerly side of Soika
Avenue, S.E., and extending back
129.43 feet on the Westerly line,
129.16 feet on the Easterly line and
having a rear line of 40 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1269-02.
By Council Members Johnson and
Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to
Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
proce-

The City Record
dures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-17-072 as
more fully described below, to Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-17-072
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
138 in R. Yeakel’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 417 and 425, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 10 of
Maps, Page 25 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Cumberland
Avenue,
S.E.
(formerly
Charles
Street) and extending back of equal
width 120 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-13-022 as
more fully described below to Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-13-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
Nos. 22, 23 and 24 in Isaac H. Marshall’s Allotment of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 425 and
426, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 20 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
together forming a parcel of land
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point which is distant 34 feet Southerly measured
along said Westerly line, from the
Northeasterly corner of said Sublot
No. 24; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of East 102nd Street,
34 feet; thence Westerly and parallel to the Northerly line of said
Sublot Nos. 24, 23 and 22, 120 feet to
the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
22; thence Northerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot No. 22, 34
feet to a point; thence Easterly in a
direct line, 120 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.

1374

June 19, 2002
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-14-012 as
more fully described below, to Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-14-012
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
67 in South Woodland Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 426, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 28 of Maps, Page
23 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 35 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 104th Street, extending
back of equal width 140 feet to the
Easterly line of East 103rd Place, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 129-22-095 as
more fully described, to Buckeye
Area Development Corporation.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 129-22-095
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
16 in Prochaska and Kyela’s Rice
Avenue Allotment of a part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 436,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 39 of Maps, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet on the Northerly side of Continental
Avenue,
S.E.,
(formerly
Rosedale Avenue, S.E.) and extending back of equal width 145 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-25-098 as
more fully described below, to Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-25-098
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
125 in the Boulevard Heights Company’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 435,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 47 of Maps, Page 13 of Cuyahoga County Records and forming a
parcel of land 35 feet front on the
Northerly side of Lardet Avenue,
S.E., and extending back between
parallel lines 103 feet as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.

June 19, 2002
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 129-30-112 as
more fully described below, to Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 129-30-112
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and bounded and described as
follows, to wit: and known as being
Sublot No. 60 in the Lorenz Sanda
Subdivision No. 2, as part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 437
and 438, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 47 of Maps, Page 21
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 37 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 130th Street (formerly
East 126th Street) and extending
back of equal width 150 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-03-019 as
more fully described below, to Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-03-019
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
5 in Behm and Stahl Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 419 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 34 of Maps, Page
4 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 114th Street and extending back 173.51 feet on the Northerly line, 173.49 feet on the Southerly
line and has a rear line of 40 feet,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-03-073 as
more fully described below, to Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-03-073
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
65 in Albert and Mary Stastny’s
Allotment of a part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 419 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 32
of Maps, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40.5 feet front
on the Easterly side of East 112th
Street and extending back of equal
width
120.08
feet
deep
on
the
Northerly line, 120 feet deep on the
Southerly line, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.

The City Record
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-03-084 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-03-084
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
43 in Barbara and Albert A. Stastny’s Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 419, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 32 of Maps, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 112th Street (formerly May
Avenue), and extending back 121.52
feet deep on the Southerly line,
about
121.50
feet
deep
on
the
Northerly line, and 40 feet wide in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-05-004 as
more fully described below, to Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-05-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
153 in the Van Sweringen Company’s Re-Subdivision of the Weybridge Land Company’s Subdivision
No. 1 of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 425 and 426 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 49 of Maps, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 50
feet front on the Southeasterly side
of Woodhill Road, 80 feet wide, and
extending back between parallel
lines, a distance of 125 feet, and
having a rear line of 50 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-05-005 as
more fully described below, to Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-05-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
152 in the Van Sweringer Company
‘s R-Subdivision of the Weybridge
land Company’s Subdivision No. 1 of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 425 and 426, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 49 of
Maps, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 50 feet front on
the Southeasterly side of Woodhill
Road, S.E., and extending back of

1375

15
equal width 125 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
1. Restrictions as shown on Plat
of the Van Sweringer Company’s ReSubdivision f the Weybridge Land
Company Subdivision No. 1 recorded
in Volume 49 of Maps, Page 16 of
Cuyahoga County Records.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 128-06-004 as
more fully described below, to Buckeye Area Development Corporation.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 128-06-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
6 in the Marshall Re-Subdivision of
part of Blocks A and B and Sublot
Nos. 52, 54, 56 and 58 of the Bigelow
Subdivision of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 425 and 426 as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Subdivision in Volume 22 of Maps,
Page
15
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being a parcel of land
40 feet front on the Southerly side
of Shale Avenue, S.E., and extending back between parallel lines 126
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 25. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 26. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 27.
That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 28. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.

16
Ord. No. 1270-02.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1865 and 1871 East
81st Street to Eva Denise McCord.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 119-01-062
and
119-01-063,
as
more
fully
described below, to Eva Denise
McCord.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-01-062
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
339, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 81st Street as opened and
widened by Ordinance of the City of
Cleveland by appropriation proceedings in the year 1893 at the point of
intersection of said line with the
Northerly line of premises conveyed
by Alfred Ewell to John H. Holmes
by deed dated June 2, 1887, and
recorded in Volume 413, Page 80 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Southerly along the present Easterly line of East 81st Street, 60 feet to
a point; thence Easterly, on a line
parallel to the Northerly line of land
conveyed to said John H. Holmes as
aforesaid, 70 feet; thence Northerly
on a line parallel to the Easterly
line of East 81st Street, 60 feet to
the Northerly line of premises conveyed to John H. Holmes as aforesaid;
thence
Westerly,
on
said
Northerly line, 70 feet to the place
of beginning, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 119-01-063
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being as being
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 399, bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 81st Street (45 feet wide) at a
point 60 feet Southerly (measured
along said Easterly line) from its
point of intersection with Northerly
line of land conveyed to John H.
Holmes by deed dated June 2, 1887,
and recorded in Volume 413, Page 80
of Cuyahoga County Records; thence

The City Record
Southerly along said Easterly line
of East 81st Street, 63 feet; thence
Easterly, parallel to the Northerly
line of land conveyed to W.T. Paul
by deed dated May 16, 1907, and
recorded in Volume 1114, Page 112
of Cuyahoga County Records, 70 feet
to the Easterly line of land so conveyed to W.T. Paul, as aforesaid,
and
the
Northerly
prolongation
thereof, thence Northerly about 63
feet to the Northeasterly corner of
land conveyed to the Princeton Realty and Investment Company by deed
dated September 20, 1916, recorded
in Volume 1812,Page 368 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of land
so conveyed to The Princeton Realty and Investment Company, 70 feet
to the place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Easement
recorded
in
Volume
1614, Page 359 of Cuyahoga County
Records.
Easement
recorded
in
Volume
1812, Page 368 of Cuyahoga County
Records.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland.
The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1271-02.
By Council Member Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 102nd and 103rd
Streets to Glenville Development
Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722

1376

June 19, 2002
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 108-11-006,
108-11-007 and 108-11-071, as more
fully described below, to Glenville
Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 108-11-006
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
120 in W.H. VanTine, Jr. Trustee’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 361 and 369,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 17 of Maps, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of
East
102nd
Street,
(formerly
Eldridge Avenue) and extending
back of equal width 130 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 108-11-007
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 121 in W.H. Van Tine, Jr.
Trustee Allotment, of a part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 361
and 369, as per recorded plat of said
Allotment in Volume 17, Page 29 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 40 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 102nd Street and
extending back of equal width 130
feet deep, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to: Restrictions recited in
Volume 548, Page 133 of Cuyahoga
County Records filed April 12, 1893.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 108-11-071
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 40 feet of Sublot No. 13 in
John Crowell’s Re-Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 361, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page
31 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 103rd Street (formerly
John Street) and extending back of
equal width 142 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.

June 19, 2002
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market

The City Record

17

Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.

Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.

Ord. No. 1272-02.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Local 1099 – Crafts; and to repeal
Section 43 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new Sections
43a, 43b, and 43c, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That in accordance with division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves
the collective bargaining agreement with Local 1099 – Crafts, set forth in File No. 1272-02-A, for the period from
April 1, 2001 through March 31, 2004, which provides, among other things, for an increase in the salaries and
wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:
Increase

Effective Date of Increase

Three percent

April 1, 2001

Three and one-half percent

April 1, 2002

Four percent

April 1, 2003

Section 2. That Section 43 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, is supplemented by adding new Sections 43a, 43b, and
43c, to read as follows:
Section 43a. Hourly Rate – 195 Building & Construction Trades Council
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:
Effective
Date

Minimum

Maximum
$37.73

1.

Asbestos Worker.........................................................................

5/1/01

$30.18

2.

Boiler Maker.................................................................................

7/1/01

$31.68

$39.60

3.

Bricklayer......................................................................................

5/1/01

$26.32

$32.90

4.

Bricklayer Foreman...................................................................

5/1/01

$27.57

$33.90

5.

Carpenter........................................................................................

5/1/01

$26.05

$32.56

6.

Carpenter Foreman.....................................................................

5/1/01

$27.30

$33.81

7.

Carpenter Apprentice.................................................................

5/1/01

$ 8.20

$16.43

8.

Cement Finisher..........................................................................

5/1/01

$26.46

$33.08

9.

Cement Finisher Foreman.......................................................

5/1/01

$27.71

$34.08

10.

Electrical Worker.......................................................................

5/1/01

$30.96

$38.70

11.

Electrical Worker Foreman....................................................

5/1/01

$32.21

$39.70

12.

Glazier.............................................................................................

5/1/01

$26.08

$32.60

13.

Ironworker.....................................................................................

1/1/02

$30.45

$38.06

14.

Ironworker Foreman..................................................................

1/1/02

$31.70

$39.06
$31.93

15.

Painter.............................................................................................

6/1/01

$25.54

16.

Painter – Apprentice.................................................................

5/1/01

$ 8.20

$14.89

17.

Painter Foreman.........................................................................

6/1/01

$26.79

$32.93
$30.19

18.

Paver................................................................................................

5/1/01

$20.13

19.

Paving Foreman..........................................................................

5/1/01

$20.70

$31.05

20.

Pipefitter (Welder)....................................................................

5/1/01

$31.42

$39.28

21.

Pipefitter Foreman.....................................................................

5/1/01

$32.67

$40.28

22.

Plasterer.........................................................................................

5/1/01

$26.14

$32.67

1377

The City Record

18

June 19, 2002

23.

Plasterer Foreman......................................................................

5/1/00

$26.52

24.

Plumber (Welder).......................................................................

5/1/01

$31.10

$32.84
$38.87

25.

Plumber Foreman.......................................................................

5/1/01

$32.35

$39.87

26.

Roofer..............................................................................................

5/1/01

$26.70

$33.37

27.

Sheet Metal Worker...................................................................

5/1/01

$29.62

$37.02

28.

Sheet Metal Worker Foreman................................................

5/1/01

$30.87

$38.02

29.

Superintendent of Construction Equipment......................

5/1/01

$20.70

$31.05

Section 43b. Hourly Rate – 1099 Crafts
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

Effective
Date

Minimum

Maximum

1.

Asphalt Construction Foreman..............................................

5/1/02

$20.77

$32.14

2.

Asphalt Raker..............................................................................

5/1/02

$20.54

$30.82

3.

Asphalt Tamper...........................................................................

5/1/02

$20.54

$30.82

4.

Bricklayer Helper.......................................................................

5/1/02

$22.14

$31.65

5.

Curb Cutter....................................................................................

5/1/02

$21.00

$31.51

6.

Jackhammer Operator...............................................................

5/1/02

$20.54

$30.82

Section 43c. Hourly Rate – Local 18
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification effective
May 1, 2001:

Minimum

Maximum

$31.03

1.

Construction Equipment – Group A....................................

$27.42

2.

Construction Equipment – Group B....................................

$27.27

$30.88

3.

Construction Equipment Operator – Group C..................

$26.22

$29.83

4.

Construction Equipment Operator – Group D.................

$25.44

$29.05

5.

Construction Equipment Operator – Group E.................

$25.12

$28.73

6.

Construction Equipment Operator –
Oiler – Group F.......................................................................

$18.54

$22.15

7.

Master Mechanic..........................................................................

$27.92

$31.53

8.

Overhead Floodlight Maintenance Man..............................

$21.19

$26.49

Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance, Law; Committees on Employment and Affirmative Action, Finance.
Ord. No. 1273-02.
By Council Members Jackson, Gordon and Cimperman (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan and an
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant Agreement with The Urban
League of Greater Cleveland to provide economic development assistance to partially finance acquisition and real property improvements
for the property located at 2930

Prospect Avenue, and all other associated costs to redevelop the property in Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Empowerment
Zone Section 108 loan with The
Urban League of Greater Cleveland

1378

to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance acquisition and real property improvements for the property located at
2930 Prospect Avenue, and all other
associated costs to redevelop the
property in Cleveland, Ohio (the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with The Urban League of
Greater Cleveland to receive Economic Development Initiative Grant
funds to partially finance the abovedescribed Improvement.

June 19, 2002
Section 3. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Summary contained in File No.
1273-02-A.
Section 4. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed a loan
amount of $1,020,000 and a grant
amount of $255,000. The loan shall
be paid from Fund No. 18 SF 001 and
18 SF 003 and the grant shall be
paid from Fund No. 18 SF 003,
Request No. 123525.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept collateral as set
forth in the Summary contained in
the file referenced in this ordinance
in order to secure repayment of said
loan. Any security instrument shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit said
monies in Fund No. 18 SF 002.
Section 7. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and such fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. Such fees shall be deposited
and expended from Fund No. 18 SF
004.
Section 8. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare said
contract and such other documents
as may be appropriate to complete
the transaction.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1300-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the report of the assessment
equalization board on objections
concerning estimated assessments
for improvement of improving Dillewood Road from East 176th Street
to East End; Nottingham Road from
Lakeshore Boulevard to Villaview
Road; Creekview Drive from Nottingham Road to East End; East
176th Street from Villaview Road to
Nottingham Road; and East 177th
Street from Nottingham Road to
Villaview Road by making specified
improvements
along
the
public
right-of-way; determining to proceed
with the improvements; and adopting the equalized assessments.
Whereas, the assessment equalization board appointed by Resolution No. 1171-02, adopted June 3,

The City Record
2002, to hear and determine all
objections concerning the estimated
assessments
for
improvement
of
Dillewood Road from East 176th
Street to East End; Nottingham
Road from Lakeshore Boulevard to
Villaview Road; Creekview Drive
from Nottingham Road to East End;
East 176th Street from Villaview
Road to Nottingham Road; and East
177th Street from Nottingham Road
to Villaview Road by laying and
repairing sidewalks, aprons, driveways and curbs encroaching on the
public right-of-way in accordance
with Resolution No. 141-02, adopted
April 1, 2002, has filed its report
with this Council as to its determination of such objections; and
Whereas, this Council deems the
report proper in all respects; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the report of the
assessment equalization board, appointed by Resolution No. 1171-02,
adopted June 3, 2002, and contained
in File No. 1300-02-A, is approved.
Section 2. That the assessments as
equalized by the board and recommended by it in its report are
approved, and the assessments are
directed to be filed in the Office of
the Clerk of this Council.
Section 3. That it is determined to
proceed to improve Dillewood Road
from East 176th Street to East End;
Nottingham Road from Lakeshore
Boulevard
to
Villaview
Road;
Creekview Drive from Nottingham
Road to East End; East 176th Street
from Villaview Road to Nottingham
Road; and East 177th Street from
Nottingham Road to Villaview Road
by laying and repairing sidewalks,
aprons, driveways and curbs encroaching on the public right-of-way
(the “Improvements”) in accordance
with Resolution No. 141-02, adopted
April 1, 2002 (the “Resolution of
Necessity”).
Section 4. That the Improvements
shall be performed in accordance
with the provisions of the Resolution of Necessity, and with the
plans, specifications, and profiles
approved and filed in the office of
the Clerk of Council.
Section 5. That the estimated
assessments for the Improvements,
as equalized by the Assessment
Equalization Board, filed in the
office of the Clerk of City Council
are adopted.
Section 6. That it is further determined that the portion of the cost of
the Improvements to be assessed
against benefited property shall be
assessed in the amount, manner and
number of installments as provided
for in the Resolution of Necessity.
Section 7. That no claims for damages resulting from the Improvements have been filed.
Section 8. That the cost of the
Improvements shall be paid, prior to
the collection of assessments, from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 334, 20 SF 353, and
20 SF 364. This Council determines
that the City expects to levy assessments
in
2002
for
such
Improvements, and that the City further expects and intends to use pro-

1379

19
ceeds of such assessments to reimburse Fund Nos. 20 SF 334, 20 SF 353
and 20 SF 364 the moneys expended
therefrom pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 9. That the Clerk of this
Council is directed to deliver a certified copy of this ordinance to the
County Auditor within fifteen (15)
days after the passage of this ordinance as required by Section 319.61
of the Revised Code.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1302-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the report of the assessment
equalization board on objections
concerning estimated assessments
for improvement of West 93rd Street
from Madison Avenue to the North
Marginal Road of I-90 by making
specified improvements along the
public right-of-way; determining to
proceed with the improvements; and
adopting the equalized assessments.
Whereas, the assessment equalization board appointed by Resolution No. 1172-02, adopted June 3,
2002, to hear and determine all
objections concerning the estimated
assessments
for
improvement
of
West 93rd Street from Madison
Avenue to the North Marginal Road
of I-90 by relaying and repairing
sidewalks, driveways, aprons and
curbs encroaching on the public
right-of-way, adjustment of castings,
as necessary, and grading, seeding
or re-seeding tree lawns, as necessary along the public right-of-way in
accordance with Resolution No. 54802, adopted April 1, 2002, has filed
its report with this Council as to its
determination of such objections;
and
Whereas, this Council deems the
report proper in all respects; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the report of the
assessment
equalization
board,
appointed by Resolution No. 1172-02,
adopted June 3, 2002, and contained
in File No. 1302-02-A, is approved.
Section 2. That the assessments as
equalized by the board and recommended by it in its report are
approved, and the assessments are
directed to be filed in the Office of
the Clerk of this Council.
Section 3. That it is determined to
proceed to improve West 93rd Street
from Madison Avenue to the North
Marginal Road of I-90 by relaying
and repairing sidewalks, driveways,
aprons and curbs encroaching on the
public right-of-way, adjustment of
castings, as necessary, and grading,
seeding or re-seeding tree lawns, as
necessary (the “Improvements”) in

20
accordance with Resolution No. 54802, adopted April 1, 2002 (the “Resolution of Necessity”).
Section 4. That the Improvements
shall be performed in accordance
with the provisions of the Resolution of Necessity, and with the
plans, specifications, and profiles
approved and filed in the office of
the Clerk of Council and in accordance with the estimates as equalized.
Section 5. That the estimated
assessments for the Improvements,
as equalized by the Assessment
Equalization Board, filed in the
office of the Clerk of City Council
are adopted.
Section 6. That it is further determined that the portion of the cost of
the Improvements to be assessed
against benefited property shall be
assessed in the amount, manner and
number of installments as provided
for in the Resolution of Necessity.
Section 7. That no claims for damages resulting from the Improvements have been filed.
Section 8. That the cost of the
Improvements shall be paid, prior to
the collection of assessments, from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 334, 20 SF 353, and
20 SF 364. This Council determines
that the City expects to levy assessments in 2002 for such Improvements, and that the City further
expects and intends to use proceeds
of such assessments to reimburse
Fund Nos. 20 SF 334, 20 SF 353 and
20 SF 364 the moneys expended
therefrom pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 9. That the Clerk of this
Council is directed to deliver a certified copy of this ordinance to the
County Auditor within fifteen (15)
days after the passage of this ordinance as required by Section 319.61
of the Revised Code.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1303-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the report of the assessment
equalization board on objections
concerning estimated assessments
for improvement of improving Catalpa Road from Euclid Avenue to the
north end; and Cleveland Road from
St. Clair Avenue to Taft Avenue by
making
specified
improvements
along the public right-of-way; determining to proceed with the improvements; and adopting the assessments.
Whereas, the assessment equalization board appointed by Resolution No. 1170-02, adopted June 3,
2002, to hear and determine all
objections concerning the estimated
assessments
for
improvement
of
Catalpa Road from Euclid Avenue to
the north end; and Cleveland Road
from St. Clair Avenue to Taft
Avenue by relaying and repairing
sidewalks, driveway aprons and

The City Record
curbs encroaching upon the public
right-of-way, adjustment of castings,
as necessary and grading, seeding
or re-seeding tree lawns, as necessary along the public right-of-way in
accordance with Resolution No. 54502, adopted April 1, 2002, has filed
its report with this Council as to its
determination of such objections;
and
Whereas, this Council deems the
report proper in all respects; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the report of the
assessment equalization board, appointed by Resolution No. 1170-02,
adopted June 3, 2002, and contained
in File No. 1303-02-A, is approved.
Section 2. That the assessments as
reported by the board and recommended by it in its report are
approved, and the assessments are
directed to be filed in the Office of
the Clerk of this Council.
Section 3. That it is determined to
proceed to improve Catalpa Road
from Euclid Avenue to the north
end; and Cleveland Road from St.
Clair Avenue to Taft Avenue by
relaying and repairing sidewalks,
driveway aprons and curbs encroaching upon the public right-ofway, adjustment of castings, as necessary and grading, seeding or reseeding tree lawns, as necessary
along the public right-of-way (the
“Improvements”) in accordance with
Resolution No. 545-02, adopted April
1, 2002 (the “Resolution of Necessity”).
Section 4. That the Improvements
shall be performed in accordance
with the provisions of the Resolution of Necessity, and with the
plans, specifications, profiles and
estimates approved and filed in the
office of the Clerk of Council.
Section 5. That the estimated
assessments for the Improvements,
reported by the Assessment Equalization Board, filed in the office of
the
Clerk
of
City
Council
are
adopted.
Section 6. That it is further determined that the portion of the cost of
the Improvements to be assessed
against benefited property shall be
assessed in the amount, manner and
number of installments as provided
for in the Resolution of Necessity.
Section 7. That no claims for damages resulting from the Improvements have been filed.
Section 8. That the cost of the
Improvements shall be paid, prior to
the collection of assessments, from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 334, 20 SF 353, and
20 SF 364. This Council determines
that the City expects to levy assessments in 2002 for such Improvements, and that the City further
expects and intends to use proceeds
of such assessments to reimburse
Fund Nos. 20 SF 334, 20 SF 353 and
20 SF 364 the moneys expended
therefrom pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 9. That the Clerk of this
Council is directed to deliver a certified copy of this ordinance to the
County Auditor within fifteen (15)
days after the passage of this ordinance as required by Section 319.61
of the Revised Code.

1380

June 19, 2002
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1274-02.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the zoning of properties on the northwest
corner of West 84th Street and
Franklin Avenue to a Townhouse
RA-2 District. (Map Change No. 2053,
Sheet No. 1)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the centerline of
Franklin Boulevard (66 feet wide)
at its intersection with the centerline of West 84th Street (40 feet
wide); thence Northerly along the
centerline of said West 84th Street
to its intersection with the Easterly
prolongation of the Northerly line of
Sublot number 54 in the James F.
Rodes allotment as show by the
recorded plat in Volume 15 page 2
of Cuyahoga County map thence;
Westerly along the Easterly prolongation and the Northerly line of
Sublot number 54 and 55 in said
Rodes allotment to the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot number 55;
thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot number 55 to
its intersection with the centerline
of Franklin Boulevard as aforesaid;
thence Easterly along the centerline
of said Franklin Boulevard to the
place of beginning,
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same is
hereby changed to a Townhouse RA2 Residential District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2053, Sheet No. 1, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1275-02.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the zoning of properties on the southeast
corner of West 67th Street and
Father Caruso Drive to a Townhouse RA-2 District. (Map Change
No. 2052, Sheet No. 1)

June 19, 2002
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the centerline of
Father Caruso Drive (50 feet wide)
at its intersection with the centerline of West 67th Street; thence
Easterly along the centerline of
Father Caruso Drive to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation
of the Easterly line of the O. Alger
Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 12 page 36 of
Cuyahoga County records; thence
Southerly along the Northerly prolongation and the Easterly line of
said Alger Subdivision to a point,
said point being 10 feet Northerly
from the Southerly line of Sublot
Number 18 in the said O. Alger Subdivision; thence Westerly and parallel with the Southerly line of said
Sublot Number 18 to its intersection
with the centerline of West 67th
Street as aforesaid; thence Northerly along the centerline of said West
67 Street to its intersection with the
centerline of Father Caruso Drive
and the place of beginning.
and as Outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same is
hereby changed to a Townhouse RA2 Residential District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2052, Sheet No. 1, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1276-02.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance amending the Title and Section 1 of Ordi-

The City Record
nance 1514-01, passed, August 15,
2001 as it pertains to the Senior Outreach Services Health Promotion
and Socialization Program through
the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance 1514-01, passed
August 15, 2001 are hereby amended
to read respectively as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to enter
into agreement Senior Outreach Services, Inc. for the Senior Outreach
Services
Health
Promotion
and
Socialization Program through the
use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Aging is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Senior Outreach Services, Inc. for the Senior Outreach
Services
Health
Promotion
and
Socialization Program for the public
purpose of providing social support
and recreational activities for the
senior citizens residing in the City
of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance 1514-01, passed
August 15, 2001 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as; he deems necessary to protect
the City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

21
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1277-02.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to enter
into an agreement with Senior Outreach Services, Inc. for the Senior
Outreach Services Health Promotion
and Socialization Program through
the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Aging is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Senior Outreach Services, Inc. for the Senior Outreach
Services
Health
Promotion
and
Socialization Program for the public
purpose of providing social support
and recreational activities for the
senior citizens residing in the City
of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $30,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1278-02.
By Council Member Cimperman (by dpeartmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to United Way Services
to sponsor “Guitar Mania”, a charitable event and allow 91, 10-feet tall, fiberglass guitars with concrete bases to
encroach into the public right-of-way at various locations throughout the City for the period of June 17, 2002
through October 31, 2002, inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to United
Way Services of Greater Cleveland to sponsor “Guitar Mania”, a charitable event, its successors and assigns, 1331
Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, for the construction, placement, use and maintenance of ninety-one (91),
ten (10) feet tall, fiberglass guitars with concrete bases which will encroach into the public right-of-way at various locations throughout the City for the period of June 17, 2002 through October 31, 2002, inclusive.
Location
and placement of guitars and bases are subject to the approval of the Director of Public Service, and which locations are more fully described as follows:
Location:
Sponsor:
1.
Hopkins International Airport
Continental Airlines
2.
Hopkins International Airport
3.
Hopkins International Airport
4.
Hopkins International Airport
Sedlak Mgnt. Consultants

1381

The City Record

22
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.

Hopkins International Airport
W.Huron Rd. & W. 2nd St.
The Avenue at Tower City Center
The Avenue at Tower City Center.
The Avenue at Tower City Center
The Avenue at Tower City Center
The Avenue at Tower City Center
Northwest Quadrant Public Square
Northwest Quadrant Public Square
Northwest Quadrant Public Square
Southwest Quadrant Public Square
Southwest Quadrant Public Square
Southwest Quadrant Public Square
Southwest Quadrant Public Square
Northeast Quadrant Public Square
Northeast Quadrant Public Square
Northeast Quadrant Public Square
Tower City Amphitheater
Tower City Amphitheater
Nautica Entertainment Complex
Nautica Entertainment Complex
W.9th St. & St. Clair Ave.
W.3rd & St. Clair,Warehse.Dist.
Lakeside Ave. & Ontario St.
Mall B, Lakeside Avenue
Mall B, Lakeside Avenue
Mall B, St. Clair Avenue
Mall B, St. Clair Avenue
Key Tower, Rockwell Avenue
Convention Ctr., St. Clair Ave.

35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.

City Hall, Lakeside Avenue
City Hall, Lakeside Avenue
Erieside Avenue
Erieside Avenue
Erieside Avenue
Erieside Avenue
Erieside Avenue
Erieside Avenue
Erieside Avenue
Rock & Roll Hall Fame & Museum
Rock & Roll Hall Fame & Museum
Rock & Roll Hall Fame & Museum
Rock & Roll Hall Fame & Museum
Rock & Roll Hall Fame & Museum
Rock & Roll Hall Fame & Museum
Rock & Roll Hall Fame & Museum
Rock & Roll Hall Fame & Museum
Rock & Roll Hall Fame & Museum

53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.

Rock & Roll Hall Fame & Museum
Willard Prk., E. 9th & Lakeside
Willard Prk., E. 9th & Lakeside
E.9th St. & Lakeside Ave.
E.12th St. & Superior Ave.
Hyatt Regency Hotel, Superior Ave.
E.9th St. & Superior Ave.
St.John’s Cathedral,Superior Ave.
E.12th St. & Superior Ave.
Ohio Savings Plaza, E.9th St.
E.9th St. & Vincent Ave.
Euclid Ave. & E.9th St.
Rose Bldg., E.9th St.
Jacob’s Field,Ontario St.
Jacob’s Field, Carnegie & Ontario
E.9th St. & Carnegie Ave.
Jacob’s Field, E. 9th St.
Jacob’s Field, E. 9th St.
E.9th St. & Bolivar Rd.
E.9th St. & Huron Rd.
E.9th St. & Euclid Ave.
E.9th St.& Euclid Ave.
Euclid Ave. & E. 9th St.
Halle Bldg., Euclid Ave.

Hyatt Legal Plans, Inc.
Hard Rock Café Intern’tl.
Arras Group
Alltel
cleveland.com
Executive Caterers
GE Lighting
American Greetings Corp.
Cuy.Comm.College,Metro
Forest City Enterprises
Clear Channel Radio
Giant Eagle
Enterprise Rent-A-Car
VNA Healthcare Ptrns.OH
Cleveland Browns
PriceWaterhseCoopers LLP
Thompson Hine LLP
House of LaRose
Fifth Third Bank
Nautica Entrmt.Cmplx.
Bernie Kosar Charities
Griffon Gallery
B & G Properties L.P.
Fender Musical Inst.Corp.
Cleveland Tomorrow
Devlprs.Diversified Rlty.
Tune Trivia Ltd., Inc.
Cuy. Comm. College /West
KeyBank
Nat. Assoc.Mortgage Brkrs/
US Bnk.Consumers Finance
Gr.Cleve.Growth Assoc.
Moen Incorporated
The Cleve.Clinic Found.
Wm.&Pamela Summers Fmly.
R.B.&C Hsp.Unv.Hsp.Cleve.
Pierre’s Fr.Ice Cream Co.
Appraisal Management Co.
Wm.&Pamela summers Fmly.

Rolling Stone Magazine
R.Moodie Coll .LTD &
Regional Healthscan
R & R Hall Fame/Museum
Flex Products, Inc.
Sherwin-Williams
1st Union Securities,Inc.
Turner Construction Co.
Marous Construction
McDonald Investments Inc.
Cath. Charities H&H Srvs.
Charter One Bank
Ohio Savings Bank
Holiday Inn Ex/N&T ChpHs.
National City Bank
Medical Mutual of Ohio
Pepsi
Ford Motor Company
Cuy.Comm.College /East
Country Stove & Patio
Cleveland Indians
Hi Falls Brew Co.HnyBrnBr
CompUCall Computer Repair
Ernst & Young
Huntington National Bank
Jo-Ann Stores

1382

June 19, 2002

The City Record

June 19, 2002

23

77.

Euclid Ave. & Huron Rd.

Liggett-Stashower, Inc.

78.
79.
80.

Star Plaza
Euclid Ave. & E.13th St.
Star Plaza

Convention&VstrBurGrClev.
United Way Services
Grubb & Ellis/Renaissnce

81.

Euclid Ave. & E. 14th St.

Ctr./Firstar
GM UAW Local 1714/on
behalf/Make-A-Wish, NE,OH

82.
83.
84.

Playhouse Square, Euclid Ave.
Hanna Bldg., Euclid Ave.
Playhouse Square, Euclid Ave.

Playhouse Sq. Foundation
The Cleveland Foundation
WEWS New Channel 5

85.
86.
87.

Euclid Ave. & E. 18th St.
Superior Ave. & E. 18th St.
Euclid Ave. & E. 36th St.

Jewish Comm. Federation
The Plain Dealer
Dominion EOG for Am. Red

88.

Cross/& N.OH Blood.Srvs.
Euclid Ave. & E. 105th St.
McDonald Hse. of Cleveland

MBNA America for Ronald

89.
90.

University Circle, E. Blvd.&
Bellflower Ave.
University Circle, Lerner Tower

Prewitt Fiberglass
University Hospitals

91.

& Euclid Ave.
Northeast Quadrant Shaker Square

Health Systems
The Aschkenase Family

Section 2. That said 91-fiberglass guitars will be placed within the public right-of-way as aforesaid in Section
1, and will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That all other required permits, including, but not limited to a Building Permit, shall
be obtained before said guitars constructed.
Section 3. That the Permit herein authorized shall reserve right of ingress and egress to the City of Cleveland,
and that said Permit shall require the Permittee to provide Commercial General Liability Insurance, including
Completed Operations Coverage, and that the Permittee shall maintain the permitted encroachment area, and that
the Permittee shall pay any applicable taxes and assessments due and/or owing on the permitted encroachment
area.
Section 4. That this permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20. Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1279-02.
By Council Member Cimperman
(by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Gateway Economic Development Corporation to encroach
into
the
right-of-way
of
Huron Road at the corner of Ontario
Street with six bollards and one
flagpole.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland, 758 Bolivar Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44115,
its
successors
and
assigns, for the construction, use
and maintenance of six (6) 42” bollards and one flagpole for site
improvements at the Gund Arena
building, and which improvements
will encroach into the public right-

of-way of Huron Road at the corner
of Ontario Street at the location
described as follows:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR
ENCROACHMENT/GUND
ARENA/HURON RD & ONTARIO
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio and described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the Southeasterly line of Huron Road S.E.
(94.00 feet wide) distant about 86.00
feet from its intersection with the
with
the
Northeasterly
line
of
Ontario Street S.E. (width varies);
Thence Northeasterly along the
Southeasterly line of said Huron
Road about 52.00 feet to a point;
Thence Northwesterly at right
angles to the last described line
about 12.5 feet to a point;
Thence Southwesterly and parallel
with the Southeasterly line of Huron
Road, as aforesaid, about 52.00 feet
to a point;
Thence
Southeasterly
at
right
angles to the last described line
about 12.5 feet to the place of beginning.
Section 2. That said bollards and
flagpole will be placed within the
public right-of-way as aforesaid in
Section 1, and will be constructed in

1383

accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That all other required
permits, including a building Permit, shall be obtained before said
bollards and flagpole are constructed.
Section 3. That this permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

The City Record

24

June 19, 2002

Ord. No. 1280-02.
By Council Member Cintron (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to St. Wendelin’s Church
to hang 9-banners using C.P.P. utility poles (by separate permission) which will encroach into the right-of-way
of Columbus Road between Willey Avenue and Brevier Court to celebrate St. Wendelin’s Church 100th Anniversary in service to the community.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to St. Wendelin’s Church, 2281 Columbus Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, its successors and assigns, for the construction, use,
and maintenance of nine (9) banners to be attached to Cleveland Public Power (“C.P.P.”) utility poles (by separate permission) to celebrate the St. Wendelin’s Church 100th Anniversary in service to the community, and which
banners will encroach into the public right-of-way of Columbus Road between Willey Avenue and Brevier Court
at the locations described as follows:
LOCATION:

POLE #:

COLUMBUS ROAD:
1st Pole S. of Willey (E)
5th Pole S. of Willey (E)
6th Pole S. of Willey (E)
1st Pole S. of Brevier (E)
1st Pole S. of Willey (W)
4th Pole S. of Willey (W)
7th Pole S. of Willey (W)
8th Pole S. of Willey (W)
9th Pole S. of Willey (W)

No Tag
No Tag
No Tag
No Tag
AO-8-11
No Tag
No Tag
No Tag
No Tag

(44251)
(44250)
(44319)
(44291)
(44369)

POLE OWNER:
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.

Section 2. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right, privilege or permission necessary to use, attach, affix, or otherwise place signs or any other objects on or to utility
poles described in Section 1 of this ordinance. That Permittee is solely responsible for obtaining any such right,
privilege, or permission from the owner(s) of each such pole.
Section 3. That said banners will be placed within the public right-of-way as aforesaid in Section 1, and will
be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That all other required permits, including a building Permit, shall be obtained before said banners
are hung.
Section 4. That the Permittee herein authorized shall reserve reasonable right-of-entry to the City of Cleveland;
and that the Permit shall require the Permittee to provide Commercial General Liability Insurance including Completed Operations Coverage, and that Permittee shall maintain the permitted encroachment area, and that the Permittee shall pay any applicable taxes and assessments due and/or owing on the permitted encroachment area.
Section 5. That Administrative Guidelines for all Banner Systems must be followed as approved by the City
Planning Commission’s Departments which include the Mayor’s Streetscape Committee and the Design Review
Committee.
Section 6. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 7. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20. Nays
0.
Ord. No. 1281-02.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Properties, and Recreation to enter into an
agreement with the Northwest Satellite Recreation Center for a Youth
Football and Recreation Program
through the use of Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Properties, and Recreation is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the Northwest Satellite
Recreation Center for a Youth Football and Recreation Program for the
public purpose of providing sporting
and recreational activities for youth
that reside in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $15,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.

Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1282-02.
By Council Member Coats (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply to the Cuyahoga
County Brownfield Redevelopment

1384

Fund for loan assistance to acquire,
demolish, and remediate property
located at 1084 East 152nd Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development, is authorized to apply to the Cuyahoga
County Brownfield Redevelopment
Fund for loan assistance in an
amount not to exceed $1,000,000, to
acquire, demolish, and remediate
property located at 1084 East 152nd
Street.
Section 2. That the Director of
Law is authorized to assist in the
preparation of said application and
such other documents as may be
necessary to protect the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

June 19, 2002
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1283-02.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Western Reserve Historical Society for the 2002 AfricanAmerican Heritage and Cultural Celebration through the use of Ward 9
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Western Reserve Historical
Society for the 2002 African-American Heritage and Cultural Celebration for the public purpose of providing educational programs to the
residents of Cleveland on the contributions of African-Americans in
American history, through the use
of Ward 9 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $10,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1284-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
O’Malley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Lutheran Housing
Corporation for a Crime Watch and
Tutoring Program through the use
of Ward 15, and 16 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Lutheran Housing Corporation for a Crime Watch and Tutor-

The City Record
ing Program for the public purpose
of providing safety education and
tutoring services for adults and
youths that reside in the City of
Cleveland through the use of Wards
15, and 16 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $47,178 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1285-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 5. (Fred Johnson)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the consent of
Council, expressed by ordinance, is
a prerequisite to temporary sidewalk peddling upon the public
rights of way outside of the Central
Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to engage in peddling in Ward
5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 675.07 of the Codified Ordinances, this Council hereby consents
to allow each person named below
to engage in peddling in the public
right of way in Ward 5 at the locations specified: Fred Johnson at 7310
Kinsman Road.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

1385

25
Ord. No. 1286-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the MetroHealth Medical
Center for the HIV/AIDs Outreach
Program through the use of Ward 5
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the MetroHealth Medical Center for the HIV/AIDs Outreach Program, for the public purpose of providing public awareness and education to residents of Cleveland on the
prevention HIV and AIDs through
the use of Ward 5 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $66,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1287-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless for Community Enrichment Work Training Program through the use of Ward 5
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Northeast Ohio Coalition
for the Homeless for a Community
Enrichment Work Training Program for the public purpose of providing job training for disadvantaged and low-income City of Cleveland residents through the use of
Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $30,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.

26
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1288-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Acquisition
and Development Loan and Grant
Agreement
with
The
Cleveland
Growers Marketing Company, Inc. to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition,
environmental
assessment,
remediation, demolition and other
predevelopment costs to enable the
redevelopment of property located
south of Cedar Avenue near Ashland
and Longfellow Avenues, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Acquisition
and Development Loan and Grant
Agreement
with
The
Cleveland
Growers Marketing Company, Inc. to
partially finance the acquisition,
environmental assessment, remediation, demolition and other predevelopment costs to enable the redevelopment of property located south of
Cedar Avenue near Ashland and
Longfellow
Avenues,
Cleveland,
Ohio (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Summary contained in File No.
1288-02-A.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract shall not exceed a loan
amount of $180,000 and a grant
amount of $120,000. The loan shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 18 SF 001
and 18 SF 003 and the grant shall
be paid from Fund No. 18 SF 003,
Request No. 123537.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept collateral as set
forth in the summary contained in
the file referenced are in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
security instrument shall be prepared and approved by the Director
of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 18 SF 002.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. Such fees shall be deposited
and expended from fund No. 18 SF
004.

The City Record
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare said
the contract and other documents as
may be appropriate to complete the
transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1289-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the President of City Council to
apply for, accept and expend a grant
from the Cleveland Foundation for
educational workshops for members
of Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the President of
City Council is hereby authorized to
apply for, accept and expend a
grant in the amount of $7,500 from
the Cleveland Foundation, to conduct
educational
workshops
for
members of Cleveland City Council
for the purposes set forth in the
application and according thereto;
that the President of Council is
hereby authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds under said
grant; and that said funds be and
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 1289-02-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1290-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1014-02, passed May 20, 2002,
relating to a contract with Oracle
Corporation
for
the
Cleveland
Municipal Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

1386

June 19, 2002
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1014-02,
passed May 20, 2002, are amended to
read, respectively, as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into contract without
competitive bidding with Oracle Corporation
for
the
acquisition
of
processor licenses, updates and technical support for the Cleveland Integrated Justice Information Systems,
for a period of one year, with a oneyear option to renew, with respect
to the technical support services.
Section 1. That it is determined
that the within commodities and services are non-competitive and cannot be secured from any source
other
than
Oracle
Corporation.
Therefore, the Director of Finance,
on behalf of the Cleveland Municipal Court, is hereby authorized to
make a written contract with Oracle
Corporation for the acquisition of
processor licenses, updates and technical support for the Cleveland Integrated Justice Information System.
The contract shall be for a one year
term commencing February 23, 2002,
with one (1) option exercisable by
the Director of Finance, to renew
for an additional one-year term with
respect to the technical support services, and cancellable upon thirty
days written notice by said Director,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Department of Finance, on behalf of the
Cleveland Municipal Court.
Section 2. That the existing the
title and Section 1 of Ordinance No.
1014-02, passed May 20, 2002, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1291-02.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 4. (David Aikens)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the consent of
Council, expressed by ordinance, is
a prerequisite to temporary sidewalk peddling upon the public
rights of way outside of the Central
Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to engage in peddling in Ward
4; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

June 19, 2002
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 675.07 of the Codified Ordinances, this Council hereby consents
to allow each person named below
to engage in peddling in the public
right of way in Ward 4 at the locations specified: David Aikens at the
southeast corner of Martin Luther
King Jr. Boulevard and Dickens.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1292-02.
By Council Member O’Malley.
An emergency ordinance to change
the name of Ball Diamond #1 at
Loew Park to Coach Eugene Duke
Field.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of Ball
Diamond #1 at Loew Park located
in Ward 16, shall be hereafter
changed to Coach Eugene Duke
Field, and that the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized and directed to take the
necessary action to affect said name
change and to post the proper signs,
which signs shall be installed before
August 3, 2002, in time for the park’s
closing ceremonies.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1293-02.
By Council Member Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Boys and Girls Club
of Cleveland for Recreational Programs and Activities through the
use of Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Boys and Girls Club of
Cleveland
for
Recreational
Programs and Activities for the public
purpose
of
providing
recreation
opportunities to youth residing in
the City of Cleveland, through the
use of Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1294-02.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
McDonald’s Restaurant to stretch
banners from the north side to the
south side of the streets at East
140th and I-90 Interstate and at East
156th Street on Lakeshore Avenue,
for the period from June 18, 2002 to
June 22, 2002, inclusive, publicizing
the Community Crimefair.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue
a
permit
to
McDonald’s
Restaurant to install, maintain and
remove banners from the north side
to the south side of the streets at
East 140th and I-90 Interstate and at
East 156th Street on Lakeshore
Avenue, for the period from June 18,
2002 to June 22, 2002, inclusive. Said
banner shall be approved by the
Director of Public Service, in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit.
No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

1387

27
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1295-02.
By
Council
Members
Rybka,
Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into an agreement with the
Boys & Girls Club of America for
use of its new football and baseball
facility in exchange for concrete
curb and sidewalk work done at
their premises.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the Boys &
Girls Club of America (“the Club”)
for use of its new football and baseball facility by the City for its youth
recreation programs in exchange for
the City performing concrete curb
and sidewalk work done at the
Club’s premises.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1296-02.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the African American Family Heritage Day Picnic to stretch two banners on CPP utility poles (by separate
permission)
which
will
encroach into the R/W of Kinsman
Road for the period of July 5, 2002
to August 5, 2002, inclusive, for their
annual picnic.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to the African
American Family Heritage Day Picnic to stretch, maintain and remove
two (2) banners on Cleveland Public Power utility poles, (by separate
permission) at the intersections of

28
Kinsman Road at Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr. Drive; and also on Kinsman Road at East 140th Street, for
their annual picnic, for the period of
July 5, 2002 to August 5, 2002, inclusive, and which banner location
shall be approved by the Director of
Public Service in consultation with
the Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed
or permitted on said banner, and
said
banner
shall
be
removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1297-02.
By Council Member Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 8. (Michael Smith)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the consent of
Council, expressed by ordinance, is
a prerequisite to temporary sidewalk peddling upon the public
rights of way outside of the Central
Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to engage in peddling in Ward
8; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 675.07 of the Codified Ordinances, this Council hereby consents
to allow each person named below
to engage in peddling in the public
right of way in Ward 8 at the locations specified: Michael Smith at the
corner of 105th and St. Clair in front
of the Rite Aid west of the bus stop
and at the corner of 105th and St
Clair in front of the store north of
the bus stop.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1298-02.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance No.
835-02, passed June 3, 2002, relating
to the public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing or otherwise improving Cleveland City Hall, and to design the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 2, 3 and 4
of Ordinance No. 835-02, passed June
3, 2002, are hereby amended to read,
respectively, as follows:
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement provided
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
said improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each,
or any combination, of such trades
or components may be the subject of
a separate contract for a gross
price. Upon request of said director
the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit and overhead, for all
items constituting units of said
improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to employ by contract one or more
architects and/or engineers or one
or more firms of architects and/or
engineers for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to design the public improvement
authorized above.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Service for the purpose
of compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Public Service, and certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the cost of said
improvement and services hereby
authorized shall be paid from the
proceeds of the sale of the general
obligation bonds of the City of
Cleveland authorized by Ordinance

1388

June 19, 2002
No. 373-02, passed March 11, 2002,
and from Fund Nos. 11 SF 006, 20 SF
191, 20 SF 300, 20 SF 310, 20 SF 320,
20 SF 331, 20 SF 340, 20 SF 351, 20
SF 362, 20 SF 371, 20 SF 381, 11 SF
006, Request No. 115126.
Section 2. That existing Sections
2, 3 and 4 of Ordinance No. 835-02,
passed June 3, 2002, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1299-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into a requirement contract
with Pavement Technology for the
purchase of labor and materials necessary to apply reclamite asphalt
rejuvenating agent on various City
streets, for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is determined
that the within commodities are noncompetitive and cannot be secured
from any source other than Pavement Technology. Therefore, the
Director of Public Service is authorized to make a written requirement
contract with said Pavement Technology, for a one-year period, for
labor and materials necessary to
apply reclamite asphalt rejuvenating agent on various City streets,
for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase together with all subsequent purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 121346)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

June 19, 2002
Ord. No. 1301-02.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to execute an easement granting to
Oatey Warehouse LLC certain easement rights in property located in
the Industrial Parkway, and declaring said easements rights no longer
needed for public use.
Whereas, Oatey Warehouse LLC
has requested the Director of Public
Utilities to convey certain easement
rights in property located in the
Industrial Parkway; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that an easement interest in
the following described property is
no longer needed for public use:
A Portion of Industrial Parkway
Extension as vacated by Ordinance
No. 905-02, passed June 3, 2002.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County Of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being a part of
Original Rockport Township Section
2, being bounded and described as
follows:
Being all that portion of Industrial Parkway Extension, S.W. (60 feet
wide) as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 226 of Maps, Page 30 of
Cuyahoga County Records, a distance approximately 677.06 feet in
length.
Subject to easements as listed on
Ordinance No. 905-02, passed June 3,
2002.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described, non-exclusive, easement interest to Oatey Warehouse
LLC at a price not less than fair
market value as determined by the
Board of Control.
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be for ingress
and egress to and from Oatey property.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be permanent; that
the easement shall include reasonable right of entry rights to the
City; that the easement shall not be
assignable; that the easement shall
require the grantee to indemnify the
City, provide reasonable insurance,
maintain any grantee improvements
located within the easement, and
pay any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made by
Official Deed of Easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public Utilities on behalf of the City of Cleveland. The Deed of Easement shall
contain such additional terms and
conditions as are required to protect
the interests of the city. The Directors of Public Utilities and Law are
authorized to execute such other
documents, including without limi-

The City Record
tation, contracts for right of entry,
as may be necessary to effect the
construction
improvement
within
the property described above.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1304-02.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Moore Faith Ministries
for the Performing Arts Education
Program through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Moore Faith Ministries for the
Performing
Arts
Education
Program, for the public purpose of providing dancing art classes for youth
that reside in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $12,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1305-02.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Lutheran Housing
Corporation for a Home Repair Program through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1389

29
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Lutheran Housing Corporation, which will be acting as the
City’s agent in carrying out a Home
Repair Program for the public purpose of providing home repair assistance to Cleveland residents through
the use of Ward 2 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $100,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1306-02.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Catholic
Church west to stretch one banner
on Detroit Avenue using utility
poles (by separate permission), for
the period from June 21, 2002 to July
22, 2002, inclusive, publicizing their
annual festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Our Lady of Mt.
Carmel Catholic Church west to
install, maintain and remove one
banner to be stretched on Cleveland
Public Power utility poles, (by separate permission) publicizing their
annual church festival for the period from June 21, 2002 to July 22,
2002, inclusive, on the following
poles locations:
Pole No. TT-1-40
and 348-38 at approximately 6928
Detroit Avenue (in front of the
church).
Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit.
No commercial advertising shall be printed
or permitted on said banner and
said
banner
shall
be
removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.

30
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1308-02.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit to 2139 Broadview Road and repealing Resolution
No. 2115-01, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit
to 2139 Broadview Road by Resolution No. 2115-01 adopted by Council
on November 12, 2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and hereby consents to said
renewal pursuant to the Cooperation
Agreement by and through Merle R.
Gordon and Sharon Adkins, Vice
President of Dalaps Group, Inc.,
d.b.a. Last Chance Saloon, 2139
Broadview Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 1896770,
and executed by Susan M. Bungard,
Assistant Director of Law; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit to
2139 Broadview Road be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 2115-01, containing said
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1309-02.
By Council Member Jones.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 14720
Harvard Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permanent No.

The City Record
1879010, Dahoud Co. DBA Harvard
Deli, 14720 Harvard Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, to Permanent No.
6549673, 14720 Harvard, DBA Harvard Deli, 14720 Harvard Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44128; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permanent No.
1879010, Dahoud Co. DBA Harvard
Deli, 14720 Harvard Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44128 to Permanent No.
6549673, 14720 Harvard Inc. DBA
Harvard
Deli,
14720
Harvard
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

1390

June 19, 2002
Res. No. 1310-02.
By Council Members O’Malley,
Rybka, Jones, Reed, Zone, Coats and
Conwell.
An emergency resolution urging
the Campbell administration and the
City Law Department to investigate
insurance companies’ practice of
charging higher premiums for home
and auto insurance to customers
residing in the City of Cleveland
and to commence appropriate legal
action, if necessary.
Whereas, insurance law is based
on the idea that everybody in the
same risk category should pay the
same premium; and
Whereas, there are many variables that determine risk; and
Whereas, it has come to the attention of this Council that many insurance companies charge higher rates
for home and/or automobile insurance to customers residing in the
city of Cleveland; and
Whereas, residence in the city of
Cleveland should not be a significant factor in determining risk, such
that a persons insurance rates are
significantly increased; and
Whereas, this practice of insurance companies is unfair and discriminatory and puts an undue burden on city of Cleveland residents,
many of whom can least afford to
pay higher insurance premiums; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby urges the Campbell administration and the City Law Department
to investigate insurance companies’
practice of charging higher premiums for home and auto insurance to
customers residing in the City of
Cleveland and to commence appropriate legal action, if necessary.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1815-01.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement to the Alexander Graham Bell Elementary School
Playground, and authorizing the
Director of Parks, Properties, and
Recreation to enter into contract for
the making of such improvement.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Parks, Property and Recreation, Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Finance; when amended as follows:

June 19, 2002
1. In Section 3, line 2, strike
“$75,000” and insert “$87,250.00” and
in Section 3, line 3, after “SF 166”
insert “and/or from the fund or
funds to which are credited the proceeds of the sale of general obligation bond anticipation notes or general obligation bonds issued for the
purpose which includes the above
improvement”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2140-01.
By Mayor White and Council
Member Willis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to execute a Modification of Deed Restriction for formerly City-owned property located
at East 105th Street and Hough
Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance; Passage
recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation,
City Planning, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 6, after “Avenue” and before the period insert “,
also known as Mt. Sinai Drive”.
2. In the first Whereas Clause,
line 4, after “Hough Avenue” insert
“, also known as Mt. Sinai Drive”.
3. In Section 1, line 3, after
“Hough Avenue” and before the period insert “, also known as Mt. Sinai
Drive”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2372-01.
By Council Members Jackson and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply for and accept
a grant from the Ohio Department
of Natural Resources for the Ohio
Bicentennial Legacy Tree Planting
Grant Program; and authorizing
said Director to enter into an agreement with Park Works to implement
the program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 131-02.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1023 East 72nd Street
to Eveadean Armstead.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

The City Record
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 132-02.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Crawford Road to
Belva Goodley and Earl C. Goodley,
Jr.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 134-02.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Medina Avenue to
Eugene L. Bell.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 136-02.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1390 East 92nd Street
to Jayce P. Keys.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 138-02.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1238 East 84th Street
to Maria Grant.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 529-02.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of modifying,
replacing or upgrading the existing
restrooms, HVAC, fire protection
and lighting systems, and making
other terminal modifications; and
authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into contract for the
making of such improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and

1391

31
Transportation,
City
Planning,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 3, line 2, after “shall’
insert “not exceed $3,395,680.00 and
shall”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 530-02.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
execute an easement granting to an
Ohio EPA-approved grantee certain
easement rights in property located
in the City of Brook Park; declaring
said easement rights no longer needed for public use; profferring certain
representations for purposes of the
Trust Indenture from the City of
Cleveland to the Chase Manhattan
Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee and authorizing the Director of Port Control
to apply to the bond trustee for land
release; and authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a
Conservation Easement Agreement
with the Cuyahoga Soil and Water
District.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation, City Planning, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 8, line 9, after “prepared” insert “and approved”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Rybka.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 599-02.
By Council Members Lewis, Gordon, Cimperman, Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 7501 Cornelia Avenue
to Nelida Ivette Wyatt.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 601-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development
to
apply
for
and
accept a grant from the U.S. Department of Labor for the 2002-03 Youth
Opportunity Program; and to enter
into contract with Vocational Guidance Services, Inc. to continue to
develop, operate and implement the
program.

32
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Insert a new “Section 4” to read
as follows:
“Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development shall include
in the contract with Vocation Guidance Services, Inc. authorized by
this Ordinance a requirement that
the
Youth
Opportunity
Program
shall provide the Council with a
written evaluation including without limitation statistics regarding
the participation and operation of
the YO program by not later than
December 31, 2002.”.
2. Insert a new “Section 5” to read
as follows:
“Section 5. That there shall be an
oversight committee that shall monitor the activities of the YO program, composed of not less than five
members of City Council, who shall
be appointed by the President of
City Council, the Chairperson of the
Employment,
Affirmative
Action
and Training Committee, and the
Chairperson of the Community and
Economic Development Committee.”.
3. Renumber existing Section 4 to
new “Section 6”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 727-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into a sixth amendment to
Contract No. 38890 with Pleasant
Valley Enterprises for the lease of
property located at 14550 Lorain
Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 761-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control
to enter into a requirement contract
with Siemens Building Technologies, Inc. for the purchase of labor
and materials necessary to continue to maintain, repair and expand
the building automation system at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 5, after “contract” insert “for a term of one (1)
year”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

The City Record
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 770-02.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Federal Bureau of Justice Assistance, for the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant, and authorizing the
Director of Public Safety to enter
into requirement contract for the
purchase of equipment necessary to
implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 777-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 1972-01, passed December 3, 2001, relating to a contract
with
Bingham
Building
Limited
Partnership for the acquisition and
rehabilitation of the Bingham Building.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Economic Development, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 778-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts to provide for the
demolition, removal or the boarding
up of structures within the City of
Cleveland.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 900-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ surveyors or firms of surveyors, to provide professional services necessary to survey various
parcels or portions of parcels of
land.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end of the
first paragraph, strike the period
after “Port Control” and insert: “,
and to perform Quality Assurance
on surveying work, as necessary for
the airport construction projects, as
directed by the Director of Port Control, for a term not to exceed one
year.”.

1392

June 19, 2002
2. In Section 2, line 2, after “shall”
insert “not exceed $200,000 and
shall”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 904-02.
By Council Member Jones.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Velma Avenue S.E.
hereinafter described.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service, City Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 908-02.
By Council Memebrs Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of automotive and truck
oils, lubricants and solvents, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 909-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of towing services, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 910-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of Meyer snow plow and
spreader parts, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 911-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract
of
International
truck
parts, including labor if necessary,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service.

June 19, 2002

The City Record

Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 912-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of Cushman-Ransome equipment parts, including labor if necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 918-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain mowers and cutting equipment, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 913-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of tire repair road service,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 919-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain generators, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 915-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of Ford tractor mowers and
construction equipment parts, including labor if necessary, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 916-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of equipment and vehicle
batteries, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 917-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of new tires, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service.

Ord. No. 928-02.
By
Council
Members
Gordon,
Sweeney, Johnson, Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making various public improvements as authorized by the Year XXVIII Community Development Block Grant, and
authorizing the Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Utilities to enter into
contract for the making of the various public improvements.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
Public Utilities, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Public Service, Public Parks, Property and Recreation, Public Utilities,
City Planning, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 33, line 2, strike “and
027” and insert in lieu thereof the
following: “, 14 SC 027 and 14 SC
028”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 932-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as

1393

33
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on East 57th
Street to Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 933-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located between Cedar and Central along East 40th and East 43rd
Streets to Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 936-02.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into a contract with Operative Plasterers’ and
Cement Masons’ International Association Local 404 to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the construction of
an addition to their facility, to renovate the existing space, for site
improvement, and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property located at located at
1417 East 25th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 941-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to maintain and repair boilers, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 942-02.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance designating
The
Cleveland
Christian
Home for Children as a Cleveland
Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage

34
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 977-02.
By Council Members White and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into contract with
Court Community Service for professional services necessary to place
persons the Court refers to the Court
Community Service Cleveland Work
Crew Program for the Cleveland
Municipal Court, for a period of one
year, with a one year option to
renew.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 979-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter
into
an
amendment
with
American Airlines, Inc., Contract No.
31083, to provide for the deletion of
certain space from the Lease, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 982-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
make alterations and modifications
in Contract No. 57869 for the replacement of Tug Road at Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport,
with
Perk Company, Inc., for the Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 983-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various Ford automobile,
van, truck and police vehicle parts,
including labor for installation, if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 984-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into a requirement contract
with E.J. Ward, Inc. for spare
replacement parts for the fuel control terminals and for telephone consultation needed to maintain the terminals, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 986-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into a requirement contract
with Sutphen Corporation for Sutphen fire apparatus parts, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
for a period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 987-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into a requirement contract
with Finley Fire Equipment for
Pierce fire apparatus parts, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
for a period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 988-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into a requirement contract
with Maltese Fire Equipment for
Duplex cab and chassis fire apparatus parts and LTI and Grumman
fire apparatus parts, including labor
if necessary, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for a period
not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 989-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various air compressor

1394

June 19, 2002
parts, including labor for installation, if necessary, for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 990-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various Chrysler automobile, van and truck parts, including labor for installation, if necessary, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 995-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with
various
neighborhood-based
street clubs, block clubs and other
community improvement groups to
implement the Cityworks Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 997-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with various housing development
entities, or their designees, to implement the Housing Trust Fund Program, for costs associated with various housing activities.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1002-02.
By Council Members Cintron, Gordon and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Lelolai Bakery & Café, Ltd. to provide economic development assistance to partially finance expansion
of
their
signature
product
into
wholesale distribution, and all other
associated costs necessary, located
at 1889 West 25th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

June 19, 2002

The City Record

The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1003-02.
By Council Members Cintron, Gordon and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance
authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into a contract
with Ohio City Near West Development Corporation to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the renovation of
the Fries & Schuele Building, and
all other associated costs necessary
to redevelop the property, located at
1948 West 25th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1071-02.
By Council Members White and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into agreements for
CIJIS Phase III Enhancements, a
new
Case
Management
system,
Voice Over IP Telephone System,
and Probation Project, including the
purchase, lease, or license of computer
hardware,
software,
appurtenances,
supplies,
furniture,
training materials, insurance, the
employment by contract of software
development, programming, training, and other professional services,
relocation, installation, implementation, and maintenance services, system disaster alleviation and remediation, to contract without competitive bidding with the State of Ohio
Law Enforcement Automated Data
System, and the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles, all as necessary for operation and enhancement of the Cleveland Integrated Justice Information
System (“CIJIS”) for a five year
period, for the Cleveland Municipal
Court.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1058-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of microfiche services, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1062-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of paper products, for the
various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1066-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of unarmed uniformed security guard services, for the various
divisions of City government, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1070-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of standard wire, for the
various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 1073-02.
By Council Members Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
and installing replacement sewers
and rehabilitating and repairing
sewers at various locations by various methods; and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more requirement contracts for the making of such
improvements,
for
a
two
year
period.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1075-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to clean and test insulators,
bushing and lighting arrestors, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

1395

35
Ord. No. 1076-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into requirement contract
with Mitel Networks Solutions, Inc.
for the purchase of labor and materials necessary to maintain, repair
or replace miscellaneous Mitel communications equipment, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, line 5, after “written” insert “requirement”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1077-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide assessments
and developmental training of business skill sets regarding information technology and other disciplines necessary for employees within the Department of Public Utilities
and also to provide training and
other services necessary to meet
changes in information technology
and business disciplines, for the various divisions of the Department of
Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1078-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of
fire and extended insurance coverage for various locations, for the
Division
of
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed
three years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1079-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to trim trees, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period
not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.

36
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1080-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of not
to exceed three message boards, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1081-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of
one auto dialer system, for the
Division
of
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1082-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain VacAll trucks, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1084-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain combination sewer and catch basin
cleaners, including appurtenances,
for the Division of Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1085-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of ballistic vests, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed two years.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1090-02.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment with US
Airways, Inc., City Contract No.
28672, to provide for the deletion of
certain space from the Lease, effective upon execution of the Amendment, for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation,
City
Planning,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 6, strike “2,100”
and insert “2678”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1091-02.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment with Air
Canada, City Contract No. 55337, to
provide for the deletion of certain
space from the Lease, effective upon
execution of the Amendment, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, City Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1092-02.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
canopies, and authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
such
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, City Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1094-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to

1396

June 19, 2002
enter into an agreement with the
Federal Aviation Administration to
provide fingerprinting services; and
to accept fees from certain airport
tenants for the cost of fingerprinting and processing fingerprints of
their employees.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 7 and in Section 4, lines 3 and 4, strike “excluding Continental, United and American airlines”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1095-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide for designing
the construction of the sanitary line
and collection berm as an extension
to the current Centralized Deicing
Facility, Phase Ia project, at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. Strike the title and Sections 1
and 2 in their entirety, and insert in
lieu, respectively, the following:
“An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control
to enter into an amendment to Contract No. 56786 with Camp, Dresser
and McKee to provide additional
design services relating to integrating a sanitary line and collection
berm extension into the Centralized
Deicing Facility, Phase I project,
which
was
designed
by
Camp,
Dresser and McKee.
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into an amendment to Contract No.
56786
with
Camp,
Dresser and
McKee to design a sanitary line
and collection berm extension to be
integrated
into
the
Centralized
Deicing Facility, Phase I project,
which designed by Camp, Dresser
and McKee. This amendment shall
increase the amount of the contract
by
an
amount
not
to
exceed
$375,000.00, payable from Fund Nos.
60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60
SF 106, and from any funds or subfunds to which are credited any
federal
grants
or
federal
PFC
authorization,
for
the
above
improvement and the proceeds from
the sale of any airport revenue
bond issued for a purpose which
includes the above improvement,
Request No. 118199.
Section 2. That the amendment
authorized by this ordinance shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law and shall contain
such provisions as he deems necessary to protect the public interest.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

June 19, 2002

The City Record

In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1099-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the State Childhood Lead Poisoning
Prevention Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1105-02.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to enter into contract without competitive bidding with the Cuyahoga
Regional Information System for
law enforcement services relating
to the implementation of a mobile
data computer pilot project in the
fourth police district, for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1101-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the Community Access Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, at the end, strike
the period and insert: “; and to enter
into contracts with various agencies
necessary to implement the program.”.
2. Insert new Section 3 to read as
follows:
“Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into contracts with various agencies
necessary to implement the program, payable from the fund or
funds which are credited the grant
proceeds accepted pursuant to this
ordinance.”.
3. Renumber existing Section 3 to
new “Section 4.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 1109-02.
By Council Members Cintron, Cimperman, Sweeney and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide engineering
services necessary to design the
replacement of traffic signals, poles
and underground wiring along West
25th Street from Breighton Bridge
north to Detroit Avenue; and authorizing the purchase by contract of
labor, materials and supplies necessary to make the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1102-02.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of prisoner meals, for the
Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety, for a period of one
year, with one one-year option to
renew.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1110-02.
By
Council
Members
Jackson,
Britt, Sweeney and Cimperman (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide engineering
services necessary to design the
replacement of traffic signals, poles
and
underground
wiring
along
Cedar Road from East 22nd Street
to Stokes Boulevard; and authorizing the purchase by contract of
labor, materials and supplies necessary to make the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1103-02.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of photo lab materials and
supplies, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.

Ord. No. 1111-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 844-92,
passed June 87, 1992, relating to giving consent of the City of Cleveland
to the Director of Transportation of
the State of Ohio and to the County
of Cuyahoga for the rehabilitation
of Grant Avenue; to supplement said
ordinance by adding new Sections 11

1397

37
and 12; and to renumber existing
Section 11 to new Section 13.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1112-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 132-01,
passed March 19, 2001, relating to a
requirement contract of auto and
truck batteries, for the Department
of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1113-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 135-01,
passed March 19, 2001, relating to a
requirement contract of tire repair
road service, for the Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1114-02.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, replacing
or otherwise improving City-owned
parks
and
recreation
facilities,
including site improvements and
appurtenances;
authorizing
the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties to enter into contract for
the making of such improvements;
to employ open or more architectural, landscape architectural or engineering firms and other consultants
necessary to provide professional
services relating to such improvements; and authorizing said Director
to enter into contract for the making of the improvements to parks
and to proceeds with the improvement to recreation facilities not otherwise
improved
by
the
direct
employment of the necessary labor,
for the Divisions of Recreation and
Research, Planning and Development, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1115-02.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement

38
contract of labor and materials necessary to plant trees at various locations through the City of Cleveland
on City-owned property, for the Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1116-02.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning
and
refrigeration
equipment, controls and related supplies, for the Division of Property
Management, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1118-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various agencies to
provide housing, commercial, industrial and real estate development
activities.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Strike Section 1 in its entirety
and insert in lieu thereof the following:
“Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into or amend
contracts with the following agencies to provide housing, commercial,
industrial and real estate development activities:
Citywide Development Assistance
Program
Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corporation
Cleveland Restoration Society
Cleveland Tenants Organization
Hispanic Business Association
Living in Cleveland Center
Lutheran
Housing
Corporation:
Furnace Repair
Lutheran
Housing
Corporation:
Tool Loan
NHS of Cleveland, Inc.
United Labor Agency: Home Maintenance Assistance Program
CDC Competitive Grant Program
Amistad Development Corporation
Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation
Buckeye Area Development Corporation
Burten, Bell, Carr Development
Corporation
Clark Metro Development Corporation
Collinwood Village Development
Corporation

The City Record
Cudell Improvement, Inc.
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
Euclid-St. Clair Development Corporation
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation
Famicos Foundation
Famicos Foundation (HAPP) —
Ward 7
Flats Oxbow Association
Glenville
Development
Corporation
Historic
Gateway
Development
Corporation
Historic Warehouse District Development Corporation
Kamm’s Corners Development Corporation
Little Italy 2000 Redevelopment
Corporation
Midtown Cleveland
Miles Ahead, Inc.
Mt. Pleasant Now Development
Corporation
Northeast
Shores
Development
Corporation
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation
Ohio City Near West Development
Corporation
Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation
Shaker Square Area Development
Corporation
Slavic Village Development Corporation
Southeast Improvement Association
St. Clair Neighborhood Development Association
Stockyard Redevelopment Organization
Tremont West Development Corporation
Union-Miles Development Corporation
Westown Community Development
Corporation”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1119-02.
By
Council
Members
Gordon,
Reed, Lewis, Johnson and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development and other Directors of
City Departments to enter into contract with various agencies to provide social service programs, authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into Memoranda of Understanding with the
various Directors of City Departments, and authorizing the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
to enter into lease agreements with
various non-profit agencies to provide facilities for recreation activities.
Approved by Community Development,
Public
Safety,
Community
Relations, Parks, Recreation and
Properties, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Public Safety, Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training,
Public Parks, Property and Recreation, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. Strike Section 1 in its entirety
and insert in lieu thereof the following:

1398

June 19, 2002
“Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with the following agencies to provide social service programs:
“YOUTH
Alta Social Settlement House
Bellflower Center for Prevention
of Child Abuse, Inc.
Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland
(Broadway)
Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland
(King Kennedy)
Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland
(Mt. Pleasant)
Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland
(West Side)
Brooklyn
Memorial
Community
Youth Center
Catholic Charities Services Corp.
(Martin DePorres Center)
Chorale (The)
Clergy United For Juvenile Justice, Inc.
Cleveland Police Athletic League
Community
Relations/Youth
at
Risk
Cultural and Educational Institute
for Boricua Advancement aka Julia
deBurgos Cultural Arts Center
Division
of
Recreation/Recreational Activities/Collinwood
East End Neighborhood House
Eastside Ecumenical Church Consortium (The)
Euclid-St. Clair Development Corporation
Full Gospel Evangelistic Center,
Inc.
GLAD Center, Inc.
Goodrich-Gannett
Neighborhood
Center
Greater Cleveland Neighborhood
Center Association
Harvard Community Services Center
Karamu House, Inc.
Lexington-Bell Community Center
Merrick House
Near West Theatre, Inc.
Nottingham Youth Center, Inc.
Old Brooklyn Neighborhood Services, Inc.
Phillis Wheatley Association
Professional Flair, Inc.
Safety Department/Greater Cleveland Roundtable
Salvation Army (The)
Services For Independent Living,
Inc.
West Side Ecumenical Ministry
YMCA – Broadway Branch
YMCA – Brooklyn Branch
YMCA – Downtown-/-West Side
Branches
YMCA – Glenville Branch
YMCA – Midtown East Branch
YMCA – West Park
ELDERLY
Alta Social Settlement House
Catholic Charities Services Corp.
(Hispanic Senior Center)
Catholic Charities Services Corp.
(Martin
dePorres
Center
Wards
10/11)
Community Re-Entry, Inc.
Cory Senior Citizens Program, Inc.
East End Neighborhood House
EBC’s Fery Development Corporation
Famicos Foundation
Golden Age Centers of Greater
Cleveland, Inc.
Golden Age Centers of Greater
Cleveland, Inc. (Home Base)
Greater Cleveland Neighborhood
Centers Association
Phillis Wheatley Association
Salvation Army (Tremont)
Senior Citizen Resources, Inc.
Senior
Citizen
Resources,
Inc.
(Transportation)

June 19, 2002
Senior Outreach Services (Ward
6/Community Socialization)
Senior Outreach Services (Centers
for Families and Children)
Vocational Guidance Services
Werner Community Outreach, Inc.
West Side Community House
FAMILY
AACCESS-Ohio
American
Sickle
Cell
Anemia
Association
Cleveland Church of Christ Economic Development, Inc. (Custom
Enrichment)
Cleveland Mediation Center
El Barrio
Free Clinic
Hijos De Borinquen Spanish American Center
Merrick House (The)
Mum-Ford Visual Health Care,
Inc.
Near West Side Multi-Service Corporation-/-May Dugan
Recovery Resources
Vietnamese Community
West Side Multi Service Corporation – Consortium
OTHER
Achievement Center for Children
Allegheny West Conference Corporation of Seventh Day Adventists
(Better Living Center)
Catholic
Charities
Health
and
Human Services (Women Shelter)
Community Re-Entry (New Life
Center)
Domestic Violence Center
Golgotha Baptist Church, Inc.
Greater Cleveland Neighborhood
Centers Association
Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
National Federation of the Blind
New Cleveland Food Basket
Parkworks, Inc.
Salvation Army (The)
Spanish American Committee for a
Better Community
Starting Point
Triumph House
West Side Community House”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1125-02.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to lease property
at 1468 East 55th Street from Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc. for a term not to exceed
one year, for the public purpose of
operating the One Stop Job Center.
Approved by Directors of Personnel, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Insert new Sections 6 and 7 to
read, respectively, as follows:
“Section 6. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Personnel
and Human Resources is authorized
to sublease portions of the property

The City Record

39

leased from Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc., or its
designee,
which
property
is
described above, to entities that further the purposes of the One Stop
Job Center.
Section 7. That the rent for the
sublease or subleases authorized by
Section 6 shall be established by the
Board of Control.”.
2. Renumber existing Sections 6, 7,
8 and 9, respectively, to new “Section 8”, “Section 9”, “Section 10” and
“Section 11.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

contain a provision requiring MidTown Cleveland to obtain an ordinance of City Council authorizing
the investment and/or expenditure
of grant funds or proceeds thereof
for any investment and/or expenditure except for those projects receiving financial assistance pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 113102, 1132-02, 1133-02, and 1135-02.”.
2. Renumber existing “Section 2”
to new “Section 3”, existing “Section
3” to new “Section 4”, and existing
“Section 4” to new “Section 5”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 1126-02.
By Council Member Lewis and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with International Longshoremen’s Association, Local No. 1317;
and amending Section 18 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1,
2002, relating to compensation for
various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1129-02.
By Council Members Jackson, Gordon and Cimperman (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan and an
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant Agreement with 4208 Prospect, Ltd. to provide economic development
assistance
to
partially
finance the acquisition and real
property improvements to the property located at 4208 Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, and all other
associated costs to redevelop the
property.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Brady.

Ord. No. 1127-02.
By Council Members Coats, Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer
District to provide economic development
assistance
to
partially
finance the initial repairs of the
Nine-Mile Creek Culvert directly
under the proposed Job Corps site
located at East 140th and Coit Road,
and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop the property,
located at Cleveland, Ohio.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1128-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with MidTown Cleveland to
provide economic development assistance to partially fund the MidTown
Technology Action Fund for the purpose of attracting high technology
businesses into the service area by
investing in those businesses.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. Insert a new Section 2 to read
as follows:
“Section 2. That the grant agreement with MidTown Cleveland shall

1399

Ord. No. 1130-02.
By Council Members Jackson, Gordon and Cimperman (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with 4208 Prospect,
Ltd. to provide for a ten year sixty
percent abatement for certain tangible personal property and real
estate taxes as an incentive for
acquisition and for real property
improvements for the building located at 4208 Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, located in the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Member Brady.
Ord. No. 1131-02.
By Council Members Lewis, Gordon and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Orbital Re-

40
search, Inc. to provide for a ten year
seventy-five percent abatement for
certain tangible personal property
taxes as an incentive for the purchase of machinery and equipment
to be utilized at the property located at 4415 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio, located in the Cleveland Area
Enterprise Zone.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1132-02.
By Council Members Lewis, Gordon and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan and an
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant Agreement with Orbital Research, Inc. to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the acquisition of machinery
and equipment to be utilized at the
property located at 4415 Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, and all
other associated costs to redevelop
the property.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1133-02.
By Council Members Lewis, Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan and an
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant Agreement with 4415 Euclid
LLC to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the acquisition and real property
improvements to the property located at 4415 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio, and all other associated costs
to redevelop the property.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1134-02.
By Council Members Lewis, Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan and an
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant Agreement with Lonzo Coleman to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the acquisition and real property
improvements to the property located at 1745 East 45th Street, Cleveland, Ohio, and all other associated
costs to redevelop the property.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 11 and in Section 1, line 5, strike “1745 East 45th”
and insert in lieu thereof “1775 East
45th”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1135-02.
By Council Members Lewis, Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with 4415 Euclid
LLC to provide for a ten year seventy-five percent abatement for certain tangible personal property and
real estate taxes as an incentive for
acquisition and for real property
improvements for the building located at 4415 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio, located in the Cleveland Area
Enterprise Zone.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1136-02.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Oatey Warehouse, LLC, Oatey Co., Oatey Supply
Chain Services and Cherne Industries, Inc. to provide for a ten year
seventy-five percent abatement on
certain real estate tax and a sixty
five percent abatement on certain
tangible personal property tax as an
incentive to construct real property
improvements, acquire new personal
property investments and relocate
existing personal property from outside the City of Cleveland to Fogg
Industrial Park Sublot 24A on West
140th Street and 4700 West 160th
Street.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1137-02.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract and
a grant agreement with Bellaire
Puritas Development Corporation to

1400

June 19, 2002
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition and renovation, including site
improvements of real property located at 14701 Puritas Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1196-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a first amendment to Contract No. 58289 with Science Applications
International
Corporation
for additional environmental services, including preparation and
implementation of a pilot study.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1197-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into contracts with various
agencies to provide AIDS-related
services.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. Insert new Section 2 to read as
follows:
“Section 2. That each agency
entering into contract with the City
pursuant to this ordinance shall be
required to comply with the evaluation services provided by Cleveland
State University’s School of Social
Work.”.
2. Renumber existing Sections 2
and 3, respectively, to new “Section
3” and “Section 4”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1198-02.
By Council Members Britt, Gordon
and Jackson (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development and Public Health to
enter into contracts with various
agencies to provide AIDS related
services.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health,
Community
Development,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Health,
Community and Economic Development, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end, add the
following sentence: “Any agency

June 19, 2002
that receives funds under this program shall be required to comply
with the evaluation services provided by Cleveland State University’s
School of Social Work.”.
2. In Section 2, line 2, strike
“$700,000” and insert in lieu thereof
“$715,000”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1199-02.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Parks,
Recreation and Properties to apply
for and accept a grant from the
Clean Ohio Conservation Fund for
the Mill Creek Waterfall Conservation Project; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies to acquire for public purposes such real property that is
necessary to implement the project.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Parks, Properties and
Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1201-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 2431 East 61st Street
to Burten, Bell, Carr Development,
Inc.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1202-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on Cedar Avenue
to Burten, Bell, Carr Development,
Inc.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 417-02.
By Council Member Brady.
An ordinance to change the zoning of properties on the north and
south side of Lorain Avenue west
of West Boulevard and on the
south side of Lorain Avenue east

The City Record
of Bosworth Road. (Map Change
Nos. 2041, 2042 and 2043, Sheet No.
2)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at the legal
description, strike lines 6, 7, 8, 9,
and 10 in their entirety and insert
in lieu thereof the following: “the
centerline of said Regina Court,
N.W. and its North Easterly”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 943-02.
By Council Member Britt.
An ordinance to change the zoning of properties on the west side of
Overlook Avenue, north of Carlton
Road. (Map Changes No. 2047 and
2048, Sheet No. 9)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1005-02.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An ordinance to change the zoning height district of properties
west of Grayton Road and south of
Interstate 480. (Map Change No. 2049
Sheet No. 13)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 733-02.
By Council Member Cimperman
(by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate portions
of Payne Court N.E., East 25th Place
and East 23rd Place.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service, City Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 789-02.
By Council Member Zone (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Aspen Court N.W.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service, City Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

1401

41
LAID ON THETABLE
Ord. No. 482-95.
By Council Members Turner and
Coats.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 121.07 thereof, relating
to advertising on City Trucks.
Ord. No. 1196-96.
By Council Members Miller and
Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into agreements with parking
lot operators located off airport
property, in order to assess fees to
such companies for use of airport
property in the conduct of the companies’ business at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, and to
issue permits for the use of airport
property pursuant to said agreements.
File No. 1592-96.
Martha Pontoni — Mayor’s Appointment to Police Review Board.
Res. No. 826-97.
By Council Members Lewis and
White.
An emergency resolution urging
the Cleveland Board of Education,
the Superintendent of the Cleveland
public school system and to reopen
Aviation High School and Mayor
White to work with the Tuskegee
Airmen to utilize the school solely
for aviation training and support
services.
File No. 138-98.
Theodore Sande — Mayor’s Appointment to Landmarks Commission.
File No. 140-98.
Velma McEwen — Mayor’s Appointment to Landmarks Commission.
File No. 142-98.
Randall Shorr — Mayor’s Appointment to Landmarks Commission.
File No. 499-98.
Ziah Hajj — Mayor’s Appointment
to Landmarks Commission.
File No. 544-98.
Dorothy Adams — Mayor’s Appointment to Police Review Board.
Ord. No. 32-99.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Robinson, Zone and Johnson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 680.01 and 680.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
2436-A-90, passed June 17, 1991, relating
to
newspaper
dispensing
devices.
Ord. No. 1458-99.
By Council Member Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1132 and 1136 East
98th Street to Charles Hall and
Brenda J. Hall.
Ord. No. 1761-99.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Jackson and Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Devel-

42
opment
to
enter
into
an
Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity contract with Hepp Kondas
Incorporated to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the renovation of property
at 4320 Payne Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Ord. No. 62-2000.
By Council Members O’Malley,
Lewis, Dolan, Cintron and Cimperman.
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Section 125.04 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 64310A, passed September 22, 1924 relating to employment of associate
counsel.
Ord. No. 471-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
and implementing the Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport Expansion Program; authorizing the
Director of Port Control to enter into
various contracts for the making of
such improvement, for the purchase
of related materials and equipment,
for the acquisition of various rights
and interests in real property, for
the relocation or modification of
buildings, fixtures or features, for
various professional services and
with federal, state and local governmental or regulatory entities or
public authorities; and authorizing
the
preparation,
submittal
and
acceptance of various required permits.
Ord. No. 550-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a concession agreement
for the operation of an advertising
concession at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, for a period
not to exceed ten years.
Ord. No. 656-2000.
By Council Member Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Economic
Development
to
enter
into a contract with King Media
Enterprises to provide economic
development assistance to assist
the company in continuing its operation and retaining jobs in the
Empowerment Zone of the City of
Cleveland.
Ord. No. 761-2000.
By Council Members Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Rex-Buckeye Company, Inc. to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition of machinery and equipment,
located at 1230 West 58th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Ord. No. 1002-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into various agreements with
mitigation partners for wetlands
and streams course preservation and
restoration as required to obtain federal and state permits and approval
for airport expansion.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1008-2000.
By
Council
Members
Jackson,
Melena, Cimperman and Patmon (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 3606 Prospect Avenue
and 2061 East 36th Street to Abraham Realty, Inc.
Res. No. 1119-2000.
By Council Member Willis.
An emergency resolution urging
gasoline station operators to offer
full service to its customers at no
added cost to the customer.
Res. No. 1120-2000.
By Council Member Willis.
An emergency resolution urging
RTA to reduce the fares on buses
and rapid transit.
Ord. No. 1389-2000.
By Council Members O’Malley and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of used paving bricks, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities.
Ord. No. 1394-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the FAA TRACON and necessary
project components; authorizing the
Director of Port Control to enter into
contract for the making of such
improvement; authorizing contracts
for the purchase of supplies, material, equipment and other items
required to make the improvement,
including rental, labor and installation, if necessary; authorizing such
other agreements as are necessary;
and authorizing said Director to
apply and pay for permits, licenses,
or other authorizations as necessary
to make the public improvement.
Ord. No. 1395-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of demolishing,
relocating and constructing certain
NASA facilities in order to permit
the construction of Runway 5L/23R;
authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into contracts for
the making of such improvement;
authorizing contracts for the purchase of supplies, materials, equipment and other items required to
make the improvement, including
rental, labor and installation, if necessary; authorizing said Director to
apply and pay for permits, licenses,
or other authorizations as necessary
to make the public improvement;
and authorizing the Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies
to
acquire such interests in real property as are necessary to make the
public improvement.
Ord. No. 1396-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to install new and replacement
aviation
communications
equipment, including removal of
existing equipment, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control, for a period not to exceed
two years.

1402

June 19, 2002
File No. 1470-2000.
Charles J. Patton, Jr. — Mayor’s
Appointment to Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority.
Ord. No. 2091-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 571.88 thereof, relating
to fees for use of the airport by various vehicle operators.
Ord. No. 2092-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 571.851 thereof, relating
to collection of landing fees by fixed
base operators at Burke Lakefront
Airport.
Ord. No. 2109-2000.
By Council Members Dolan, Cimperman and Rybka.
An emergency ordinance establishing and adopting a Collective
Bargaining Policy that requires the
Directors of Finance, Law, Personnel and Safety to use external, like
work
force
employment
factors
when determining the base compensation
and
increases
in
salary
and/or other benefits paid to City
employees in the Divisions of Police,
Fire and Emergency Medical Service.
Ord. No. 137-01.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance approving a second amendment to the Master
Development
Agreement
between the City of Cleveland and
Chagrin Highlands, Ltd.; authorizing and directing the Director of
Economic Development to execute
such amendment on behalf of the
City of Cleveland; and authorizing
and directing the execution and
delivery
of
certain
instruments
related thereto.
Ord. No. 356-01.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance supplementing the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, by enacting
new Sections 535.22 and 535.23 relating to a sewer and water line protection program.
Ord. No. 428-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to clean, repair and maintain
oil water separators, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Ord. No. 429-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of replacing a
coil casing section for a fluid cooler
located at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, and authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement.
Ord. No. 435-01.
By Council Members Cintron and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
employ one or more landscapers to

June 19, 2002
provide
professional
landscaping
design services for various facilities
within the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of
Public Service, for a period not to
exceed seven months.
Ord. No. 508-01.
By Council Members Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Section 4 of Ordinance No.
1575-2000, passed September 25, 2000,
relating to the Director of Community Development expending funds
for the operation of the Your Home
Program and to enter into contracts
under that Program; to supplement
said ordinance by adding new Section 6; and to renumber existing Section 6 to new Section 7.
Ord. No. 656-01.
By Council Members Patmon and
Polensek.
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend the portion of Section 3, entitled Section 2 Job Retention, of
Ordinance No. 1742-88, passed July
14, 1988, concerning an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with LTV Steel
Company, Inc.
Ord. No. 659-01.
By Council Member Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement
with
Slavic
Village
Development for the installation of
a fire alarm system at the Alliance
of Poles facility located at 6966
Broadway Avenue in order to carry
out the public purpose of improving
safety through the use of Ward 12
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Ord. No. 661-01.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with IJN-1 Foundation for providing housing and counseling services for troubled youth in order to
serve the public purpose of providing social services through the use
of Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Ord. No. 1010-01.
By Mayor White (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of
labor and materials necessary to
install a mezzanine at the Central
Receiving area at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, including
the installation of a vertical lift, a
safety moving system and a shelving system for file storage, and
maintenance, if necessary, for the
Department of Port Control.
Ord. No. 1234-01.
By Council Member Patmon (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of shredding services, for
the various divisions of City government.
Ord. No. 1492-01.
By Council Members Dolan and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services nec-

The City Record
essary to develop an information
technology systems project at Cleveland
Hopkins
International
and
Burke Lakefront Airports.
Ord. No. 1733-01.
By Council Members Gordon and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
cause payment of the City of Cleveland’s obligation under the Lease By
Way of Concession between The
MetroHealth System and the City of
Cleveland.
Ord. No. 1784-01.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with Quay 55 Limited Partnership,
or its designees, to provide financial
assistance in the form of Community Development Float Loans to partially finance the acquisition and
redevelopment of Nicholson Terminals Warehouse located at 5401
North Marginal Road.
Ord. No. 1855-01.
By Council Member Patmon (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to transfer the sum of two hundred eightyfive thousand two hundred seventyfive dollars ($285,275) from Other
Funds within the General Fund to
the Division of Police, Department
of Public Safety; and to reduce the
Special Revenue Fund, Division of
Street Construction, Maintenance &
Repair Fund by the sum of two
hundred eighty-five thousand two
hundred
seventy-five
dollars
($285,275).
Ord. No. 1961-01.
By Council Member Willis.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 459.11 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1593-2000
passed December 18, 2000 relating to
parking infraction fines.
Ord. No. 2080-01.
By Council Members O’Malley,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into an option to lease and
a ground lease with Cleveland Foodbank, Inc. for certain property; and
approving the Cleveland Foodbank
project for funding from the Clean
Ohio Fund Program.
Ord. No. 290-02.
By Council Members Lewis and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 8, 28, 30 and 34 of Ordinance No. 1562-01, passed August 15,
2001, as amended, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Ord. No. 595-02.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Section 2 of Ordinance No.
2055-98, passed December 14, 1998,
relating to a requirement contract
for
various
types
of
electrical
motors and pumps, for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.

1403

43
Ord. No. 840-02.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority for the Midnight Basketball Program.
Ord. No. 924-02.
By Council Members Zone and
Reed.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 619.11 thereof, and
repealing existing Section 619.11,
as amended by Ordinance No. 77387, passed June 16, 1987, relating
to prohibiting conduct related to
prostitution, soliciting, or procuring.
Ord. No. 925-02.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 607.19 thereof, and
repealing existing Section 607.19,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 116395, passed June 19, 1995, relating
to prohibiting drug-related activities.
Ord. No. 1001-02.
By Council Members Zone, Gordon,
Cimperman
and
Jackson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance Authorizing the Director of Economic
Development
to
enter
into
an
Enterprise Zone Agreement with
Medici Properties LLC to provide
for a ten year sixty percent abatement for certain tangible personal
property improvements as an incentive to acquire property and to construct improvements and renovations at the property located at
6419-6421 Detroit Avenue, located in
the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone.
Without objection, all committees
were relieved of further consideration of the aforementioned legislation and were laid on the table pursuant to the Rules of Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Tabled. Yeas 20. Nays 0.
MOTION
By Council Member Brady and seconded by Council Member Rybka
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Member Michael
A. Dolan be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
9:15 p.m. to meet at the call of the
Chair.

Clerk of Council

The City Record

44
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Utilicon Corporation, for the above-mentioned public improvement is hereby
approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

BOARD OF CONTROL

RMC Inc. (MBE)

WORK
$160,000.00 (16%)

Choice Construction
(FBE)
$ 53,350.00

June 12, 2002
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, June 12, 2002,
at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Campbell
presiding.
Present: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Absent: Director Baker.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner Purchases and Supplies.
Carol Whitaker, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 349-02.
By Acting Director Brown.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by Deloitte Consulting
under the contract for professional
security consulting services for the
Division of Waiter, Department of
Public Utilities, pursuant to Ordinance No. 1414-99, passed December
13, 1999, and Board of Control Resolution No. 285-02, adopted May 15,
2002, is hereby approved.
Subcontractor

June 19, 2002

Work

CH2M Hill Ohio, Inc.
Security consulting
and engineering
design and replacement
of fire hydrants.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Baker.
Resolution No. 350-02.
By Acting Director Brown.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Utilicon Corporation
for the public improvement of Innerbelt Bridges Water Main Reinsulation (including contingency allowance) for the Division of Water,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
received on March 27, 2002, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1155-01, passed July 18, 2001, upon a
unit basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of One Million Fifty-Six Thousand Sixteen and
50/100
Dollars
($1,056,016.50),
is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby authorized to enter into contract
for said improvement with said bidder.

(5%)

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Baker.
Resolution No. 351-02.
By Acting Director Brown.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Huron Lime Company for an estimated quantity of
quicklime (item no. 1) for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two (2)
years beginning with the later of
the date of execution of a contract
or receipt of a notice to proceed,
received on the 15th day of May
2002, pursuant to the authority of
Section 129.24 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to FiftyTwo Thousand Five Hundred Thirty-Three
and
no/100
Dollars
($52,533.00), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is hereby requested to enter into
requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 122762
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of ThirtyFive Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($35,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Baker.
Resolution No. 352-02.
By Acting Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to Ordinance No. 219001, passed by the Cleveland City
Council on March 25, 2002, Vocon
Design, Inc. (“Consultant”), is hereby selected upon the nomination of
the Director of Port Control from a
list of qualified consultants avail-

1404

able
for
such
employment and
determined after a full and complete canvass by said Director as
the
architectural
firm
to
be
employed by contract for the purpose
of
providing
survey
and
design services necessary to complete the Comprehensive Terminal
Audit Project at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is hereby
authorized to enter into written contract with Vocon Design, Inc., based
on its proposal dated March 22, 2002.
The fee for such services shall be
an amount not to exceed SeventyNine Thousand Nine Hundred Ten
and 00/100 Dollars ($79,910.00). The
contract authorized hereby shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such provisions, as
said Director deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractor by Vocon Design, Inc. for
the
above-mentioned
contract
is
hereby approved:
Subcontractor

Services

G. Stephens, Inc.
(21% MBE)
Surveying Services
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Baker.
Resolution No. 353-02.
By Acting Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 643-2000,
passed by the Cleveland City Council on December 11, 2000, Baker &
Associates (“Consultant”) is hereby
selected upon the nomination of the
Director of Port Control from a list
of qualified consultants available
for such employment and determined after a full and complete canvass by said Director as the engineering firm to be employed by contract for the design of the Precision
Approach Path Indicator (“PAPI”)
on Runway 5R-23L at Cleveland
Hopkins international Airport, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with said Consultant for said services in an amount not to exceed
$27,009.00, on the basis of Consultant’s proposal dated November 29,
1999. The contract authorized herein
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain such other
provisions as said Director deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Baker.

June 19, 2002
Resolution No. 354-02.
By Acting Director Konicek.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 467-95 passed by
the Cleveland City Council on May
10, 1999, the City of Cleveland
(“City”) entered into a contract with
Firstar Bank, N.A. (“Firstar”), City
Contract Number 54309, for the
installation, maintenance and operation of depository and automated
teller machines to serve the air traveling public and patrons of Cleveland
Hopkins
International
and
Burke Lakefront Airports; and
Whereas, on August 9, 2001, U.S.
Bank National Association (“U.S.
Bank”) and Firstar Bank National
Association merged to form U.S.
Bank National Association; and
Whereas, U.S. Bank National Association
is
undertaking
all
of
Firstar’s obligations under said City
Contract Number 54309 and represents that such merger shall not
constitute a waiver of any of
Firstar’s obligations or the City’s
right thereunder; now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
this Board hereby acknowledges the
merger of U. S. Bank National Association with Firstar Bank National
Association and acknowledges the
change in name and consents to the
assignment of City Contract Number
54309 by Firstar to U.S. Bank National Association.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is hereby
authorized to execute all documents
and do all other things necessary to
effect the consent to the merger and
the assignment of City Contract
Number 54309 hereby granted and to
acknowledge the name change.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Baker.
Resolution No. 355-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of NozzleNew, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of fuel dispensing pump repair, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on April 17, 2002, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 2156-01, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on February
11, 2002, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Three Hundred Twenty One Thousand Nine Hundred Sixty Six and
40/100 Dollars ($321,966.40) (2% 30
Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 105857
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred
Twenty
Thousand
and
no/100 Dollars ($120,000.00).

The City Record
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Baker.
Resolution No. 356-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Columbus Equipment, Co.
for an estimated quantity of Galion
equipment parts and labor if necessary, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
May 8, 2002, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 368-01, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on April 9, 2002, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Two Hundred
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($200,000.00) (Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 105877
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Fifty
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($50,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, but not to exceed a
total value of $200,000.00, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Baker.
Resolution No. 357-02.
By Acting Director Carroll.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on May 22, 2002 for
Larvicide Briquettes (all items) for
the Division of Environment, Department of Public Health pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
537-02, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on April 8, 2002
be and the same are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hude-

1405

45
cek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Baker.
Resolution No. 358-02.
By Director Draper.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Lee Wayne Corporation for an
estimated quantity of DARE Items,
item nos. 1-4 and 6, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public
Safety, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
April 11, 2002, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 2165-01,
which was passed by Cleveland City
Council on February 4, 2002, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to Forty Thousand, Four Hundred Sixty Five and
00/100 Dollars ($40,465.00) (Net 30
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 119213
as specified,
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Forty
Thousand, Four Hundred Sixty Five
and 00/100 Dollars ($40,465.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Baker.
Resolution No. 359-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that pursuant to Ordinance No. 17282000 passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on April 9, 2001,
the firm of Dynatech Consulting
Engineers is hereby selected upon
the nomination of the Director of
Parks, Recreation, and Properties
from a list of qualified firms available for such employment and determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation, and Properties as the
firm of engineers (“Engineer”) to be
employed by contract for the purpose of supplementing the regularly
employed staff of several departments of the City in order to provide the professional services necessary for building improvements at
various recreation centers.
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Parks, Recreation, and
Properties hereby is authorized to
enter into a written contract with
Dynatech
Consulting
Engineers
based
upon
its
proposal
dated
December 19, 2001, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall include such addi-

The City Record

46
tional provisions as he deems necessary to benefit and protect the
public interest.
The fees for services to be performed under the contract authorized hereby shall not exceed Forty
Seven Thousand Five Hundred and
no/100 Dollars ($47,500.00). The total
compensation to the Engineer shall
not exceed Forty Seven Thousand
Five Hundred and no/100 Dollars
($47,500.00).
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subconsultant by Dynatech Consulting
Engineers, is hereby approved:
Kalapos Architects, Inc.
FBE

$10,990

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Baker.
Resolution No. 360-02.
By Acting Director Carroll.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on May 10, 2002 for an
Atomic Absorption Spectrometer for
the Division of Environment, Department of Public Health, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
536-02, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on April 8, 2002 be
and the same are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Brown, Szabo,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll,
Director
Draper,
Acting
Director Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director Huth,
Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Baker.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ANNE BLOOMBERG,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JULY 1, 2002
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 02-114: 1082 East 105th
Street (Ward 8)
C&I Construction, owners, appeal
to demolish an existing 45' x 90'
building and construct a 30' x 44'
two-story masonry building all situated on an approximate 113' x 117'
parcel located in a Two-Family District and a Local Retail Business
District on the west side of East
105th Street at 1082 East 105th
Street; said construction being contrary to the Residential District
Requirements
of
Section
337.02,
where a retail sales use is not permitted in a Two-Family District and
contrary to the Business District
Requirements of Section 343.18(c),
where in a Retail District driveways
must be 15' from the property line
and 1' to 2' is proposed and contrary
to
the
Landscaping
and
Screening Requirements of Section
352.08 through 352.11, where it abuts
the Residential District and a 6'
wide frontage strip landscape strip
is required where the proposed parking area abuts the street and no
landscaping is provided and the
dumpsters are not permitted in the
required landscape area and contrary to the Yards and Courts Requirements, where both the building
and dumpster are proposed in the
required setback area and on the
rear corner lot, no building shall be
erected closer to the street than the
setback building line of the butt lot
as stated n Section 357.05(b)(2) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-133: Phase 1 — 5303,
5307, 5311, 5315 Herman Avenue
(Unit 1) 5305, 5309, 5313, 5317 Herman Avenue (Unit 2) (Ward 17)
City Life Development, owners c/o
Kurt Weaver, agent, appeal to construct (2) four unit townhouses and
on an approximate 139' x 155' corner parcel located in a Two-Family
District on the southeast corner of
West 54th Street and Herman Avenue at 5303, 5307, 5311, 5315 Herman
Avenue (Unit 1), 5305, 5309, 5313,
5317 Herman Avenue (Unit 2); said
construction being contrary to the
Residential District Requirements of
Section
337.02,
where
townhouse
units are not a permitted use in a
Two-Family District and contrary to
the Height Requirements of Section
353.01, where the maximum height
permitted is 35' and 41' is proposed
and contrary to the Area Requirements of Section 355.04, where the
maximum gross floor area permitted
is 9,736 sq. ft. and 22,840 sq. ft. is
proposed and contrary to the Yards
and Courts Requirements of Section
357.04(a), where a 20' minimum rear
yard setback is required and 12' is
provided and Section 357.08, where a
20' minimum rear yard setback is
required and 10' is provided and
Section 357.09(b)(2)(a), where no
building shall be erected less than
10' from a main building on an
adjoining lot and 7' is proposed and
Section 357.15(a), where a rear
building on the same lot must be 40'
away and 34' is proposed and no
porch may extend within 10' of the
street line as stated in Section

1406

June 19, 2002
357.13(b)(4)
nances.

of

the

Codified

Ordi-

Calendar No. 02-133: Phase 2 — 5409,
5413, 5417, 5421, 5425 Herman
Avenue (Unit 3) 5411, 5415, 5419,
5423 Herman Avenue (Unit 4)
(Ward 17)
City Life Development, owners c/o
Kurt Weaver, agent, appeal to construct (1) five unit townhouse and
(1) four unit townhouse on an
approximate 139' x 172' corner parcel located in a Two-Family District
on the southwest corner of West 54th
Street and Herman Avenue at 5409,
5413, 5417, 5421, 5425 Herman Avenue
(Unit 3) 5411, 5415, 5419, 5423 Herman Avenue (Unit 4); said construction being contrary to the Residential District Requirements of Section
337.02, where townhouse units are
not a permitted use in a Two-Family District and contrary to the
Height
Requirements
of
Section
353.01, where the maximum height
permitted is 35' and 41' is proposed
and contrary to the Area Requirements of Section 355.04, where the
maximum gross floor area permitted
is 9,866 sq.ft. and 25,695 sq. ft. is proposed and contrary to the Yards and
Courts
Requirements
of
Section
357.04(a), where a 20' front yard setback is required and 12' is provided
and Section 357.08, where a 20' minimum rear yard setback is required
and 10' is provided and Section
357.09(b)(2)(a), where no building
shall be erected less than 10' from
a main building on an adjoining lot
and 7' is proposed and Section
357.15(a), where a rear building on
the same lot must be 40' away and
30' is proposed and no porch may
extend within 10' of the street line
as stated in Section 357.13(b)(4) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-136: 1867-73 West
25th Street (Ward 14)
Paul Cirjak, owner, appealed to
change the use of an existing 60' x
84' store building into a nightclub
all situated on as 66' x 157' parcel
located in a General Retail Business
District on the east side of West
25th Street at 1871 West 25th Street
and the appeal was adopted and
approved on April 19, 2001; now
Emad Silmi, owner c/o Michael
Meyer, agent, appeals to change the
use of an existing 60' x 84' store
building into a nightclub by constructing an approximate 31' x 60'
two-story addition to the east of the
existing building all situated on a
66' x 157' parcel located in a General Retail Business District on the
east side of West 25th Street at 18671873 West 25th Street; said change
of use and construction being contrary to the Specific Use Regulations of Section 347.12, where amusement uses must be 500' from a Residential District and the proposed
change of use and construction are
within 100' of the Residential District to the north and contrary to the
Off-Street
Parking
and
Loading
Requirements where no parking
spaces are provided and 90 spaces
are required as stated in Section
349.04(g) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-137: Appeal of Mervyn J. Barber c/o Richard H.
Lazard
11920
Lorain
Avenue
(Ward 19)
Mervyn J. Barber, owner c/o
Richard H. Lazard, manager of the

June 19, 2002
property, appeals under the authority of Sections 329.03 and 367.09,
where the appellant has the right
to appeal to the Board of Zoning
Appeals from a Violation Notice
issued February 26, 2002 by the
Commissioner
of
Building
and
Housing for failure to abate the
following
violations:
Sections
3109.3, 3101.99, 327.03, 329.03, 343.01,
343.11, 357.14, 349.13(c)6, and 509.6
as stated in the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-140: 14500 Puritas
Avenue (Ward 20)
Paul Haddad, owner, and Whitney
Miller, tenant, appeal to establish an
existing 24' x 34' two-story, frame
one dwelling house to office use as
a palm reader advisor facility all
situated on an approximate 87' x
120' irregular shaped parcel located
in a General Retail Business District on the north side of Puritas
Avenue at 14500 Puritas Avenue;
said use being contrary to the OffStreet
Parking
and
Loading
Requirements of Section 349.04(g),
where 2 parking spaces are required
and 1 is credited leaving 1 required
space and Section 349.07, where all
parking spaces and vehicle maneuvering areas shall be hard surfaced
and drain within the premises and
contrary to the Landscaping and
Screening Requirements, where a
10' wide transition strip is required
at the rear of the property between
the General Retail Business District
and the One-Family District as stated in Section 352.09 of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-141: 705-707 Literary
Road (Ward 13)
Joseph and Brenda Lewandowski,
owners, appeal to construct a 4' x
6' wooden balcony to the front second floor of an existing 36' x 45'
two-story multi-family structure all
situated on a 40' x 66' parcel located in a Multi-Family District on the
east side of Literary Road at 705-707
Literary Road; said construction
being contrary to the Yards and
Courts Requirements, where a 4'
projection is proposed and open balconies shall not project more than
3' provided it does not extend within 10' of the street line as stated in
Section 357.13(b)(4) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-161: 1227 West 69th
Street (Ward 17)
Noalsco
Housing
Corporation,
owners c/o Father Richard Rasch,
appeal to construct a 26' x 28' twostory frame dwelling with a 21' x
21' one-story attached garage all
situated on an approximate 65' x
93' “L” shaped parcel located in a
Two-Family District on the east
side of West 69th Street at 1227
West 69th Street; said construction
being
contrary
to
the
Area
Requirements
of
Section 355.04,
where
the
minimum
lot
area
required is 4,800 sq.ft. and 4,255 sq.
ft. is proposed and contrary to the
Yards and Courts Requirements,
where a 5' rear yard setback is
proposed and 20' is required as
stated in Section 357.08 of the Codified Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

The City Record
REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JUNE17, 2002
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, June 17,
2002, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 02-119: 2510 St. Clair
Avenue
Zapis Communications owner, c/o
Joe Evans, agent, appealed to construct a 35' x 130' asphalt parking
lot on a 175' x 132' parcel in a
Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-120: 3601 Clinton
Avenue
Domestic Violence Center, owner,
appealed to expand from 12 to 19
people the use of a two-story frame
dwelling on a 66' x 185' parcel in
a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-126: 222-248 Euclid
Avenue
Euclid LLC appealed to renovate
and change the use of 5 retail office
buildings into retail office space
and 73 apartment units in a General
Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar
No.
02-121:
3321
West
Boulevard
Richard Dempsey appealed to construct a 12' x 20' open, one-story
frame patio to the rear of a 20' x
20' garage in a One-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-122: 10630 Tacoma
Avenue
Leatrice Emeruwa appealed to
install 30 linear feet of 4' high
chain link fence in the front yard of
a 40' x 147' parcel in a Two-Family District.
Calendar
No.
02-124:
3623
West
Boulevard
Randy J. Cunningham appealed
from a Violation Notice issued by
the Division of Building and Housing.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 02-118: 9901 Broadway
Avenue postponed to July 1, 2002.
Calendar No. 02-123: 12417-19 Buckeye Road postponed to July 1,
2002.
Calendar No. 02-71: 3914 Cypress
Avenue postponed to July 8, 2002.
On Monday, June 17, 2002, in Executive Session:

47
story porch to a one family dwelling
in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-113: 3300 Woodbine
Avenue
Jack Kline and Ruth Boland, owners, appealed to construct a 22' x
58' two-story frame, one family
house with attached garage on a 32'
x 101' parcel in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-125: 1936-48 West
25th Street
Fries and Schuele LLC, owner,
appealed to expand the use of a
five-story building by adding 9
stores with retail space on the first
floor and 117 dwelling units on the
upper 13 floors to be serviced by a
42 space parking lot in a General
Retail Business District.
Calendar Nos. 02-49: 1605 East 66th
Street
Calendar Nos. 02-50: 1607 East 66th
Street
Calendar Nos. 02-51: 1609 East 66th
Street
Calendar Nos. 02-52: 1611 East 66th
Street
Calendar Nos. 02-53: 1613 East 66th
Street
Catholic Charities Facilities Corporation, owner, appealed to construct five 21' x 30' two-story, single dwelling townhouse units, each
one with a 22' x 23' detached
garage on a 35' x 140' parcel in a
Two-Family District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 02-115: 8100 Dorver
Drive
Dave J. Rakoczy, owner, appealed
to enclose a 6' x 20' first floor open
front porch to extend the existing
living room of a 20' x 24' one family house in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-117: Appeal of Julius
C. Fossa, 8514 Broadway Avenue
Julius C. Fossa, owner, appealed
from a Warning Notice for failure to
remove barbed wire fencing on a 75'
x 128' parcel at 8514 Broadway Avenue.
Calendar No. 02-56: 14113-15 Jenne
Avenue
Thomas Branch, owner, appealed
to construct a 28' x 38' two-story,
frame accessory garage on an 80' x
140' parcel in a Two-Family District.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

The following appeals were heard
by the Board on Monday, June 10,
2002, and said decisions were adopted and approved in Executive Session on June 17, 2002:

PUBLIC NOTICE

The following appeals were Approved:

NONE

Calendar No. 02-111: 1836-8 West 38th
Street
James Paul Curley, owner, appealed to construct an 18'-4" x 43'
two-story frame family room and
bedroom addition with a second

1407

NO MEETING

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

The City Record

48
CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 26, 2002
Labor and Materials Necessary to
Maintain Pump Stations, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 346-02, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, April 22,
2002.

CASHIER’S
CHECK
MONEY ORDER.

June 19, 2002
AND/OR

The
Rehabilitation
of
Central
Avenue from E. 22nd Street to E.
55th Street, for the Division of
Engineering
and
Construction,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 103201, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 19, 2001.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
OF
FIFTY
DOLLARS
($50.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR
MONEY ORDER.
FRIDAY, JUNE 28, 2002
Messenger Services, for the Various
Divisions, of the Department of
Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 341-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 1, 2002.
Transfer and Disposal of Solid
Waste Contract “W”, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 479-02, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, April 29,
2002.
Direct Haul of Solid Waste/Contingency Contract “Contingency”, for
the Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 534-02, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, April 29, 2002.
June 12, 2002 and June 19, 2002
WEDNESDAY, JULY 3, 2002
Outdoor Light Program (Material),
for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 822-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 12, 2000.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING ON THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 2002 AT 10:00 A.M.,
LOCATED AT CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER, 1300 LAKESIDE
AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
June 12, 2002 and June 19, 2002
WEDNESDAY, JULY 10, 2002

June 12, 2002 and June 19, 2002
THURSDAY, JUNE 27, 2002
Villas of Woodhaven—Phase 1, for
the Division of Engineering and
Construction, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 224-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 29, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
OF
FIFTY
DOLLARS
($50.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR
MONEY ORDER.
Constructing and Repairing Catch
Basins and Manholes Citywide, for
the Division of Water Pollution
Control,
Department
of
Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 886-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 29, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
OF
FIFTY
DOLLARS
($50.00) IN THE FORM OF A

Internal Pipeline Testing System,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2353-01,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, April 12, 2002.
Disposal of Debris at Landfills, for
the Various Divisions, of the
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 174201, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 10,
2001.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING ON WEDNESDAY, JUNE 26, 2002 AT 10:00 A.M.,
LOCATED AT CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER, 1300 LAKESIDE
AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
June 12, 2002 and June 19, 2002
THURSDAY, JUNE 27, 2002
Re-Bid Larvicide Briquettes, for the
Division of Environment, Depart-

1408

ment of Public Health, as authorized by Ordinance No. 537-02,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, April 8, 2002.
June 19, 2002 and June 26, 2002
WEDNESDAY, JULY 10, 2002
One (1) 12,000 Pounds Capacity Lift
Truck, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1264-01, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 19, 2001.
Atomic Absorption Spectrometer for
Blood Lead Analysis, for the Division of Environment, Department
of Public Health, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 536-02, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, April 10, 2002.
Y2000 Apex 25 ft. Ridge Hull Inflatable (RHI) Boat, Rhino Tandem
Axel Trailer and Equipped with a
2002 Mercury 225 XL Outboard
Motor for use by the Harbor Unit,
for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 497-01,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, May 21, 2001,
June 19, 2002 and June 26, 2002
THURSDAY, JULY 11, 2002
Uniform Clothing Supplies—2003, for
the Division of Police, Department
of Public Safety, as authorized by
Section 135.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Natural Gas, for the Division of Various City Government, Department
of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 284-01.
June 19, 2002 and June 26, 2002

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 1226-02.
By
Council
Members
Cintron,
Coats and Zone.
An emergency resolution calling
upon the President of the United
States and the appropriate members
of the United States government to
normalize U.S. relations with Cuba,
including those related to trade,
travel, culture, sports and academic
exchange.
Whereas, the 40 year old embargo
of Cuba is a relic of a bygone era
and an obstacle to peaceful international cooperation; and
Whereas, the policy of denying
Americans the right to freely travel
to Cuba has been an embarrassment
and an affront to the democratic
principles of our country; and
Whereas, former President Jimmy
Carter and Mayor Jane Campbell in
their recent visits to Cuba have
called for an end to the embargo
and the restrictions on travel; and
Whereas, polls show that the overwhelming majority of Americans
support a fundamental change in
these policies, as do the major religious denominations and unions, the

June 19, 2002
United States Chamber of Commerce, the American Farm Bureau,
the Council on Foreign Relations,
the State of Illinois and the State of
Texas, and the City of Pittsburgh,
as well as the majority of the members of both Houses of Congress;
and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
has recently received an invitation
from the City Council of Havana to
send a delegation to Cuba; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby calls upon the President of the
United States and the appropriate
members of the United States government to normalize U.S. relations
with Cuba, including those related
to trade, travel, culture, sports and
academic exchange.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to President
of the United States George W.
Bush, Secretary of State Colin Powell, Senator George Voinovich, Senator Mike DeWine, Congresswoman
Stephanie Tubbs Jones and Congressman Dennis Kucinich.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Res. No. 1227-02.
By Council Members Conwell and
Dolan.
An emergency resolution honoring
all fathers and urging all American
fathers to take a pledge on this
Father’s Day, June 16, 2002 to be the
best father that one can be.
Whereas, Sunday, June 16, 2002 is
Father’s Day, and all over the United States of America fathers are
honored on that day; and
Whereas, along with accepting
the honors duly given each father
on Father’s Day, all fathers in
America should take a pledge to be
the best type of father that one can
be, and to meet all of the responsibilities of being a father; and
Whereas, this Council wants to
both honor all fathers and to urge
fathers to take a pledge to do what
is right and best for their families;
now therefore
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council honors all fathers on June 16, 2002 and
all year long.
Section 2. That this Council urges
all fathers in America to take the
following pledge:
1. I will work to be the best
father I can be. Fathering is a daily
mission, and there are no substitutes for good fathers. Since I have
not been taught to be a father, in
order to make my “on the job” training easier, I will study, listen,

The City Record
observe and learn from my mistakes.
2. I will openly display love and
caring for my wife and children. I
will listen to my wife and children.
I will hug and kiss my children
often. I will be supportive of the
mother of my children and send
quality time with my children.
3. I will teach by example. I will
try to introduce myself and my family to something new and developmental each week. I will help my
children with their homework and
encourage them to be involved in
extracurricular activities.
4. I will read to or with my children as often as possible. I will provide opportunities for my children to
develop creatively in the arts: music,
dance, drama, literature, and visual
arts. I will challenge my children to
do their best.
5. I will encourage and organize
frequent family activities for the
home and away from home. I will
try to make life a positive adventure and make my children aware of
their extended family.
6. I will never be intoxicated or
“high” in the presence of my children, nor will I use language unbecoming for an intelligent and serious father.
7. I will be nonviolent in my relationship with my wife and children.
As a father, my role will be to stimulate and encourage my children
rather than carry the “big stick.”
8. I will maintain a home that is
culturally in tune with the best of
my ancestral culture. This will be
done, in part, be developing a
library, record/disc, video and visual art collection that reflects the
developmental aspects of my ancestors. There will be order and predictability in our home.
9. I will teach my children to be
responsible, disciplined, fair and
honest. I will teach them the value
of hard work and fruitful production. I will teach them the importance of family, community, politics,
and economics.
10. As a father, I will attempt to
provide my family with an atmosphere of love and security to aid
them in their development into sane,
loving, productive, spiritual, hardworking, creative Americans who
realize they have a responsibility to
do well and help the less fortunate
of this world. I will teach my children to be activists and to think for
themselves.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Res. No. 1228-02.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3218
East 135th Street, 1st Floor.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the

1409

49
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit from Abudies Corporation, DBA Eastside Groceries,
3218 East 135th Street, 1st Floor,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 0036901 to Karima, Inc.,
DBA Eastside Groceries, 3218 East
135th Street, 1st Floor, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
4498930; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Abudies Corporation, DBA Eastside Groceries, 3218
East 135th Street, 1st Floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number
0036901 to Karima, Inc., DBA Eastside Groceries, 3218 East 135th
Street, 1st Floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Permanent Number 4498930,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

50
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Res. No. 1229-02.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 14510 Kinsman Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit from Muaad Salem, DBA
Kinsman Sunoco, 14510 Kinsman
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number 7682209 to 14510,
Inc., DBA Kinsman Sunoco, 14510
Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Permanent Number 6549670;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Muaad Salem, DBA Kinsman Sunoco, 14510 Kinsman Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 7682209 to 14510, Inc., DBA
Kinsman Sunoco, 14510 Kinsman
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number 6549670, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

The City Record
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 2196-01.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 439.11 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2822-89,
passed March 19, 1990 relating to
requiring trucks to have secure
loads, and increasing the penalty for
violating that requirement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 439.11 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2822-89, passed March
19, 1990 is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 439.11 Loads Dropping or
Leaking; Removal Required; Tracking Mud
(a) No vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any street, highway or
other public place unless such vehicle is so constructed, loaded or covered as to prevent any of its load
from dropping, sifting, leaking or
otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or other substances
may be dropped for the purpose of
securing traction, or water or other
substances may be sprinkled on a
roadway in cleaning or maintaining
such roadway.
(b) Except for a farm vehicle
used to transport agricultural produce
or
agricultural
production
materials or a rubbish vehicle in the
process of acquiring its load, no
vehicle loaded with garbage, swill,
cans, bottles, waste paper, ashes,
refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire,
cartons, boxes, glass, solid waste,
scrap metal, or any other material
of an unsanitary nature that is susceptible to blowing or bouncing
from a moving vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, highway or other public place unless the
load is covered with a sufficient
cover to prevent the load or any
part of the load from spilling onto
the street, highway or other public
place. (RC 4513.31)
(c) No person shall operate any
vehicle so as to track or drop mud,
stones, concrete, gravel or other similar material on any street, highway
or other public place.
(d) It shall be the duty of the driver of a vehicle who unlawfully
drops or deposits mud, stones, gravel or other similar material or permits the load or any portion there-

1410

June 19, 2002
of to be dropped or deposited upon
any street, highway or other public
place to immediately remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
(e) Whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree on the first offense,
and a misdemeanor of the second
degree on the second or any subsequent offense.
Section 2. That existing Section
439.11 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 2822-89, passed
March 19, 1990 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 2411-01.
By Council Members Jackson and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to amend Contract Nos.
44524, 45316 and 46679 with Cleveland Housing Network to convert
the loans set forth therein to grants
in exchange for the replacement of
the debt with an equal amount of
new capital investment in the creation of affordable housing in the
City.
Whereas, the Director of Community Development entered into Contract Nos. 44524, 45316 and 46679
with Cleveland Housing network to
provide loans for the creation of
affordable housing in the City using
Federal HOME and CDBG funds;
and
Whereas, Cleveland Housing Network has requested that the City
convert the loans to grants in
exchange for the replacement on a
dollar for dollar basis, of the debt
with new capital investment in
affordable housing within the City;
and
Whereas, this Council believes
that the conversion of the loans to
grants in exchange for the ongoing
investment in affordable housing
within the City is in the best interest of the City and is the best means
of accomplishing the City’s public
purpose of providing safe, decent
and sanitary affordable housing;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to amend Contract Nos. 44524,
45316 and 46679 with Cleveland
Housing Network, Inc. in order to
convert the loans set forth therein
to grants in exchange for the
replacement of the debt with an
equal amount of new capital investment in the creation of affordable
housing in the City.
Section 2. That the Directors of
Community Development, Finance

June 19, 2002
and Law are hereby authorized to
make such changes and revisions to
the Contracts referenced in Section
1 as are necessary to enforce the
requirements of Section 1 and to protect the City’s interests.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 184-02.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 611.01 and 611.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
90-96, passed March 18, 1996, relating
to gambling.
Whereas, Ohio law and the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland permit schemes of chance,
including instant bingo tickets, pulltab tickets and break open tickets,
to be conducted by charitable organizations that have a 501(c)(3) permit from the Internal Revenue Service; and
Whereas, instant bingo tickets,
pull-tab tickets and break open tickets are often illegally sold by organizations and entities that are not
considered charitable organizations
by the Internal Revenue Service;
and
Whereas, this Council finds that
the illegal sale of instant bingo tickets, pull-tab tickets and break open
tickets are diverting money from
charitable organizations and that
requiring such sales to occur on
premises owned by a charitable
organization will limit the illegal
sale of instant bingo tickets, pulltab tickets and break open tickets;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the peace, property, health or
safety in that it is necessary to prohibit schemes of chance by organizations that are not charitable organizations; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 611.01 and
611.02 as amended by Ordinance No.
90-96, passed March 18, 1996, are
hereby amended to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 611.01 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
(a) “Bookmaking”
means
the
business of receiving or paying off
bets.
(b) “Bet” means the hazarding of
anything of value upon the result of
an event, undertaking or contingency, but does not include a bona
fide business risk.
(c) “Scheme of chance” means a
lottery, numbers game, pool or other
scheme in which a participant gives
a
valuable
consideration
for
a
chance to win a prize.
(d) “Game of change” means
poker,
craps,
roulette,
a
slot
machine, a punch board or other

The City Record
game in which a player gives anything of value in the hope of gain,
the outcome of which is determined
largely or wholly by chance.
(e) “Scheme or game of chance
conducted for profit” means any
scheme or game of chance, including but not limited to instant bingo
tickets, pull-tab tickets and break
open tickets, designed to produce
income for the person who conducts
or operates the scheme or game of
chance, but does not include a charitable bingo game.
(f) “Gambling device” means:
(1) A book, totalizer or other
equipment for recording bets;
(2) A ticket, token or other device
representing a chance, share or
interest in a scheme of chance,
except a charitable bingo game, or
evidencing a bet;
(3) A deck of cards, dice, gaming
table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
punch board or other apparatus
designed for use in connection with
any game of chance;
(4) Any equipment, device, apparatus or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes.
(g) “Gambling
offense”
means
any of the following:
(1) A violation of Sections 611.02
to 611.08 or RC 2915.02 to 2915.11;
(2) A violation of an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the
United States substantially equivalent to any section listed in division
(g)(1) of this section;
(3) Any offense under an existing
or former municipal ordinance or
law of this or any other state of the
United States of which gambling is
an element;
(4) A conspiracy or attempt to
commit, or complicity in committing
any offense under division (g)(1),
(2) or (3) of this section.
(h) “Charitable organization” means
any tax exempt religious, educational, veteran’s, fraternal, service,
nonprofit medical, volunteer rescue
service, volunteer firemen’s, senior
citizen’s, youth athletic or youth athletic park organization. An organization is tax exempt if the organization is and has received from the
Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that is currently in
effect stating that the organization
is exempt from Federal income taxation under subsection 501(a) and
described in subsections 501(c)(3),
(4), (8), (10) or (19) of the Internal
Revenue code. To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization,
except a volunteer rescue service or
volunteer
firemen’s
organization,
shall have been in continuous existence as such in this State for a
period of two years immediately preceding either the making of an
application for a bingo license under
RC 2915.08 of the conducting of any
scheme of chance or game of chance
as provided in division (c) of Section 611.02.
(i) “Religious organization” means
any church, body or communicants
or group that is not organized or
operated for profit, that gathers in
common membership for regular
worship and religious observances.
(j) “Educational
organization”
means any organization within this
State that is not organized for profit, the primary purpose of which is
to educate and develop the capabilities of individuals through instruction, and that operates or con-

1411

51
tributes to the support of a school,
academy, college or university.
(k) “Veteran’s organization” means
any individual post of a national
veteran’s association or an auxiliary
unit of any individual post of a
national
veteran’s
association,
which post or auxiliary unit has
been incorporated as a nonprofit corporation for at least two years and
has received a letter from the state
headquarters of the national veteran’s association indicating that the
individual post or auxiliary unit is
in good standing with the national
veteran’s association. As used in
this division, “national veteran’s
association” means any veteran’s
association that has been in continuous existence as such for a period
of at least ten years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States congress or has a national dues-paying membership of at
least five thousand persons.
(l) “Volunteer firemen’s organization” means any organization of volunteer firemen, as defined in RC
146.01, that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial
support for a volunteer fire department or a volunteer fire company.
(m) “Fraternal organization” means
any society, order or association
within this State, except a college
or high school fraternity, that is not
organized for profit, that is a
branch, lodge or chapter of a national or state organization, that exists
exclusively for the common business
or brotherhood of its members and
that has been in continuous existence in this State for a period of
five years.
(n) “Volunteer
rescue
service
organization” means any organization of volunteers organized to function as an emergency medical service organization as defined in RC
4765.01.
(o) “Service organization” means
any organization, not organized for
profit, that is organized and operated exclusively to provide or to contribute to the support of organizations or institutions organized and
operated
exclusively
to
provide,
medical and therapeutic services for
persons who are crippled, born with
birth defects or have any other mental or physical defect or those organized and operated exclusively to
protect, or to contribute to the support of organizations or institutions
organized and operated exclusively
to protect, animals from inhumane
treatment.
(p) “Nonprofit medical organization” means any organization that
has been incorporated as a nonprofit corporation for at least five years
and that has continuously operated
and will be operated exclusively to
provide, or to contribute to the support of organizations or institutions
organized and operated exclusively
to
provide,
hospital,
medical
research or therapeutic services for
the public.
(q) “Senior citizen’s organization”
means any private organization, not
organized for profit, that is organized and operated exclusively to
provide recreational or social services for persons who are fifty-five
years of age or older and that is
described and qualified under subsection 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue code.
(r) “Charitable bingo game” means
any bingo game that is conducted

52
by a charitable organization that
has obtained a bingo license pursuant to RC 2915.08 and the proceeds
of which are used for a charitable
purpose.
(s) “Bingo” means:
(1) A game with all of the following characteristics:
A. The
participants
use
bingo
cards that are divided into twentyfive spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of
spaces with each space, except the
central space, being designated by a
combination of a letter and a number and the central space being designated as a free space;
B. The
participants
cover
the
spaces on the bingo cards that correspond to combinations of letters
and numbers that are announced by
a bingo game operator;
C. A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that
a bingo game operator selects by
chance, either manually or mechanically from a receptacle that contains seventy-five objects at the
beginning of each game, each object
marked by a different combination
of a letter and a number that corresponds to one of the seventy-five
possible combinations of a letter
and a number that can appear on
the bingo cards;
D. The winner of the bingo game
includes any participant who properly announces during the interval
between the announcements of letters and numbers as described in
division (s)(1)C. of this section that
a predetermined and preannounced
patters of spaces has been covered
on a bingo card being used by the
participant.
(2) Any scheme or game other
than a game as defined in division
(s)(1) of this section with the following characteristics:
A. The participants use cards,
sheets or other devices that are
divided into spaces arranged in horizontal, vertical or diagonal rows of
spaces, with each space, except free
spaces, being designated by a single
letter, number or symbol; by a combination of letters, numbers or symbols; by a combination of a letter
and a number, a letter and a symbol, or a number and a symbol; or
by any combination of letters, numbers and symbols, with some or none
of the spaces being designated as a
free,
complimentary
or
similar
space;
B. The
participants
cover
the
spaces on the cards, sheets or
devices that correspond to letters,
numbers, symbols or combinations
of such that are announced by a
bingo game operator or otherwise
transmitted to the participants;
C. A
bingo
game
operator
announces or otherwise transmits to
the participants, letters, numbers,
symbols or any combination of such
as set forth in division (s)(2)A. of
this section that appear on objects
that a bingo game operator selects
by change that correspond to one of
the possible letters, numbers, symbols or combinations of such that
can appear on the bingo cards,
sheets or devices;
D. The winner of the bingo game
is any participant who properly
announces that a predetermined and
preannounced pattern of spaces has
been covered on a card, sheet or

The City Record
device being used by the participant.
(t) “Conduct” means to back, promote, organize, manage, carry on or
prepare for the operation of a
scheme or game of chance, but does
not include any act performed by a
bingo game operator.
(u) “Bingo game operator” means
any person, except security personnel, who performs work or labor at
the site of a bingo game including,
but not limited to, collecting money
from
participants,
handing
out
bingo cards or objects to cover
spaces on the bingo cards, selecting
from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters
and numbers that appear on the
bingo cards, calling out the combinations or letters and numbers, distributing prizes to the winner of the
bingo game and preparing, selling
and serving food or beverages.
(v) “Participant” means any person who plays bingo by covering the
spaces on a bingo card that correspond to combinations of letters and
numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator.
(w) “Bingo session” means a period, not to exceed five continuous
hours, during which a person conducts one or more bingo games.
(x) “Gross receipts” means all
money or assets, including admission fees, that a person receives
from a bingo session that the person conducts without the deduction
of any amounts for prizes paid out
during the session or for the expenses of conducting the bingo session.
“Gross receipts” does not include
any money directly taken in from
the sale of food or beverages by a
charitable organization conducting
as bingo session, or by a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of a charitable organization, at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, provided all of the following apply:
(1) The auxiliary unit or society
has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two
years prior to the bingo session.
(2) The person who purchases the
food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage
and items customarily received with
the purchase of that food or beverage;
(3) The food and beverages are
sold at customary and reasonable
prices;
(4) No person preparing, selling
or serving the food or beverages at
the site of the bingo game receives
directly or indirectly any form of
compensation for the preparation,
sale or service of the food or beverages.
(y) “Security personnel” includes
any person who either is a sheriff,
deputy sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member
of an organized police department
of a municipal corporation or has
successfully completed a peace officer’s training course pursuant to RC
109.71 to 109.79 and who is hired to
provide security for the premises on
which a bingo game is conducted.
(z) “To use gross receipts for a
charitable purpose” means that the
proceeds of the bingo game are used
by, or given, donated or otherwise
transferred to, any organization that
is described in subsection 509(a)(1),
(2) or (3) of the Internal Revenue

1412

June 19, 2002
code and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under subsection 501(a) and
described in subsection 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code; that the
proceeds of the bingo game are used
by or given, donated or otherwise
transferred to a veteran’s organization, as defined in division (k) of
this section, that is a post, chapter
or organization of war veterans, or
an auxiliary unit or society of, or a
trust or foundation for, any such
post, chapter or organization organized in the United States or any of
its possessions, at least seventy-five
percent of the members of which are
war veterans and substantially all
of the other members of which are
individuals who are veterans (but
not war veterans) or are cadets, or
are spouses, widows or widowers of
war veterans, or such individuals,
provided that no part of the net
earnings of such post or organization inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and
further provided that the bingo
game proceeds are used by the post
or organization for the charitable
purposes
set
forth
in
division
(B)(12) of RC 5739.02, are used for
awarding scholarships to or for
attendance at an institution mentioned in division (B)(12) or RC
5739.02, are donated to a governmental agency, or are used for nonprofit youth activities, the purchase
of United States or Ohio flags that
are donated to schools, youth groups
or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion of patriotism or
disaster relief; that the proceeds of
the bingo game are used by, or
given, donated or otherwise transferred to a fraternal organization
that has been in continuous existence in this State for fifteen years
for use exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary or educational purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals and contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under subsection
170 of the Internal Revenue Code; or
that the proceeds of the bingo game
are used by a volunteer firemen’s
organization and are used by the
organization for the purposes set
forth in division (l) of this section.
(aa) “Internal
Revenue
Code”
means the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, 100 Stat. 2085, 26 U.S.C. 1, as
now or hereafter amended.
(bb) “Youth athletic organization”
means any organization, not organized for profit that is organized
and operated exclusively to provide
financial support to, or to operate
athletic activities for persons who
are twenty-one years of age or
younger by means of sponsoring,
organizing, operating or contributing to the support of an athletic
team, club, league or association.
(cc) “Youth athletic park organization” means any organization, not
organized for profit, that satisfies
both of the following:
(1) It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
A. the playing fields are used at
least one hundred days per year for
athletic activities by one or more
organizations, not organized for
profit, each of which is organized
and operated exclusively to provide
financial support to, or to operate,
athletic activities for persons who

June 19, 2002
are
eighteen
years
of
age
or
younger by means of sponsoring,
organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an athletic
team, club, league, or association.
B. The playing fields are not used
for any profitmaking activity at any
time during year.
(2) It uses the proceeds of the
bingo games it conducts exclusively
for the operation, maintenance, and
improvement of its playing fields of
the
type
described
in
division
(cc)(1) of this section. (RC 2915.01)
Section 611.02 Gambling
(a) No person shall do any of the
following:
(1) Engage in bookmaking, or
knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking;
(2) Establish, promote or operate
or knowingly engage in conduct
that facilitates any scheme or game
of chance conducted for profit;
(3) Knowingly procure, transmit,
exchange or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission or exchange of information
for use in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with
bookmaking or with any scheme or
game of chance conducted for profit;
(4) Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance,
except a charitable bingo game, as
a substantial source of income or
livelihood;
(5) With purpose to violate division (a)(1), (2), (3) or (4) of this
section, acquire, possess, control, or
operate any gambling device.
(b) For
purposes
of
division
(a)(1) of this section, a person facilitates bookmaking if he in any way
knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking operation, including without limitation placing a bet with a person
engaged in or facilitating illegal
bookmaking. For purposes of division (a)(2) of this section, a person
facilitates a scheme or game of
chance conducted for profit if he in
any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation of any such
scheme or game, including without
limitation playing any such scheme
or game.
(c) This section does not prohibit
conduct in connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
(d) This section does not apply to
any of the following:
(1) Schemes of chance conducted
by a charitable organization that is
and has received from the Internal
Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect
stating that the organization is
exempt from federal income taxation under subsection 501(a) and
described in subsection 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code, provided that all of the money or assets
received
from
such
scheme
of
chance after
deduction only of
prizes paid out during the conduct
of the scheme of chance are used
by, or given, donated or otherwise
transferred to, any organization
that
is described in
subsection
509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code and is either
a governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under subsection 501(a) and described in subsection 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue code, and provided that the
scheme of chance is not conducted
during, or within ten (10) hours of,

The City Record
a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to Section 611.09 and provided that the
scheme of chance, except for the
sale of raffle tickets by a charitable organization and lottery tickets
sponsored by the state of Ohio, is
conducted on premises owned by
the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one (1) year
immediately preceding the conducting of the scheme of chance or on
premises leased from a governmental entity;
(2) Games of chance, if all of the
following apply;
A. The games of chance are not
craps for money, roulette for money
or slot machines;
B. The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is, and has received from the
Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that is currently in
effect, stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under subsection 501(a) and
described in subsection 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue code;
C. The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the organization that are conducted for a period
of four (4) consecutive days or less
and not more than twice a year or
for a period of five consecutive days
not more than once a year, and are
conducted on premises owned by the
charitable organization for a period
of not less than one (1) year immediately preceding the conducting of
the games of chance, on premises
leased from a governmental unit, or
on premises that are leased from a
veteran’s or fraternal organization
and that have been owned by the
lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less than
one year immediately preceding the
conducting of the games of chance;
A charitable organization shall
not lease premises from a veteran’s
or fraternal organization, or lease
from a governmental unit premises
located in a county with a population exceeding five hundred thousand, to conduct a festival described
in division (d)(2)C. of this section
if the veteran’s or fraternal organization or governmental unit already
has leased the premises twice during the preceding year to charitable
organizations for that purpose. If a
charitable
organization
leases
premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to conduct a festival described in division (d)(2)C. of
this section, the charitable organization shall not pay a rental rate for
the premises per day of the festival
that exceeds the rental rate per
bingo session that a charitable organization may pay under division
(A)(3) of RC 2915.09 when it leases
premises from another charitable
organization
to
conduct
bingo
games.
D. All of the money or assets
received
from
these
games
of
chance
after
deduction
only
of
prizes paid out during the conduct
of the games of chance are used by,
or given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization hat is
described in subsection 509(a)(1),
(a)(2) or (a)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and is either a governmental unit or an organization that
is tax exempt under subsection
501(a) and described in subsection
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code;

1413

53
E. The games of chance are not
conducted during, or within ten (10)
hours of, a bingo game conducted
for amusement purposes only pursuant to Section 611.09. No person
shall receive any commission, wage,
salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly, for operating
or assisting in the operation of any
scheme or game of chance.
(3) Any tag fishing tournament
operated under a permit issued
under RC 1533.92, as “tag fishing
tournament”
is
defined
in
RC
1531.01.
(e) Division (d) of this section
shall not be construed to authorize
the sale, lease or other temporary or
permanent transfer of the right to
conduct schemes of chance or games
of chance, as granted by division
(d) of this section, by any charitable organization that is granted that
right.
(f) Whoever violates this section
is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of the first degree if the
offender has not previously been
convicted of a gambling offense.
Whoever violates this section while
upon the grounds of a park, parkway, playground, ballfield, tennis
court, skating rink, recreation center or model airplane field which is
owned and controlled by the City
shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more
than
one
thousand
dollars
($1,000.00) and sentenced to not less
than thirty (30) days imprisonment.
The minimum fine to be imposed by
the court for a violation of the provisions of this section is mandatory.
The Court shall not suspend all of
any portion of said minimum fine;
provided that in lieu of all or a portion of the sentence of imprisonment
required hereunder, the court may
require the offender to perform
supervised community service work
pursuant to division (H) of RC
2951.02. Each day upon which a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense and shall
be punishable as such hereunder.
(RC 2915.02)
Section 2. That existing Sections
611.01 and 611.02 as amended by
Ordinance No. 90-96, passed March
18, 1996, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 412-02.
By Council Members Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate property for the acquisition,
clearance and redevelopment, according to the Euclid/Prospect II
Community Development Plan, of
the blighted area designated as
Treatment Area Block 3, Site B.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland, by Resolution No. 41902, adopted April 8, 2002 declared

54

The City Record

the necessity and intention of appropriating the fee simple property
interests herein described for the
acquisition, clearance and redevelopment,
according
to
the
Euclid/Prospect
II
Community
Development Plan, of the blighted area
designated as the Treatment Area
Block 3, Site B; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
such Resolution has been served upon
the persons in possession or having
an interest in such property; and
Whereas, such acquisition, clearance and redevelopment was determined to be a satisfactory method
for the elimination of blight and the
prevention of blight in the Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan for the Treatment Area
Block 3, Site B; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose
of
carrying
out
the
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan for the elimination
of blight and the prevention of the
recurrence of blight in the Treatment Area Block 3, Site B, through
acquisition, clearance and redevelopment, the following described fee
simple interests be and the same are
hereby appropriated:

Thence Northerly on a line parallel to said Easterly line of East 4th
Street, 80 feet to the Southerly line
of land conveyed by George E. Armstrong,
Guardian
to
Fannie
M.
Graves, by deed dated August 21,
1895, and recorded in Volume 613,
Page
415
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence
Easterly
along
said
Southerly line 30 feet to the Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to
Fannie M. Graves, as aforesaid;
Thence Northerly on a line parallel to said Easterly line of East 4th
Street to the Southerly line of land
conveyed by Ralph H. Worthington
to Charles W. Hurd by deed dated
October 17, 1935, and recorded in
Volume 28, Page 202 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence
Easterly
along
said
Southerly line, 17 feet to the Northwesterly corner of land conveyed to
Silas Brainard and wife to John S.
Newberry by deed dated June 11,
1860, and recorded in Volume 109,
Page
49
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence Southerly along the Westerly line of land conveyed to Newberry as aforesaid, about 245.95 feet
to the Northerly line of Prospect
Avenue, S.E.;
Thence
Westerly
along
said
Northerly line of Prospect Avenue
S.E., 47 feet to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.

Permanent Parcel No. 101-26-71
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, known as being part of Original Two Acre Lots Nos. 101 and 102,
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 4th Street, at a point 80 feet
Northerly from its point of intersection with the Northerly line of
Prospect Avenue, S.E.;
Thence, Northerly along the said
Easterly line of East 4th Street,
about 45 feet to the Southerly line of
land devised by Nathan Brainard to
Marie L. Brainard by will recorded
in Cuyahoga County Probate Court
Will Record Volume E, Page 59;
Thence Easterly on a line at right
angles with said Easterly line of
East 4th Street, 110 feet;
Thence Southerly on a line parallel to said Easterly line of East 4th
Street, about 45 feet to the South
Easterly corner of land conveyed by
George E. Armstrong, Guardian, to
Fannie M. Graves, by deed dated
August 21, 1895, and recorded in Volume 613, Page 415 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence Westerly along the Southerly line of land conveyed to Fannie M. Graves, as aforesaid, 110 feet
to the place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.

Westerly Part of
Permanent Parcel No. 101-26-043
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lots Nos. 101 and
102 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Prospect Avenue, S.E., at a point 60
feet Easterly from its point of intersection with the Easterly line of
East 4th Street;
Thence Northerly on a line parallel to said Easterly line of East 4th
Street, 80 feet to the Southerly line
of land conveyed by George E. Armstrong,
Guardian
to
Fannie
M.
Graves, by deed dated August 21,
1895, and recorded in Volume 613,
Page
415
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line, 20 feet;
Thence Southerly on a line parallel to said Easterly line of East 4th
Street, 80 feet to said Northerly line
of Prospect Avenue, S.E.;
Thence
Westerly
along
said
Northerly line of Prospect Avenue,
S.E., 20 feet to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.

Easterly Part of
Permanent Parcel No. 101-26-043
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lots Nos. 101 and
102 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Prospect Ave., S.E., at a point 80 feet
Easterly from its point of intersection with the Easterly line of East
4th Street;

Permanent Parcel No. 101-26-044
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lot No. 101 in
said
City,
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Prospect Avenue, S.E., (formerly
Prospect Street) at a point distant
40 feet Easterly from its intersection
with the Easterly line of East 4th
Street;
Thence Northerly parallel with
the Easterly line of East 4th Street,
80 feet to a point;

1414

June 19, 2002
Thence Easterly parallel with the
Northerly line of Prospect Avenue,
S.E., 20 feet to a point;
Thence Southerly parallel with
said Easterly line of East 4th Street,
80 feet to the Northerly line of
Prospect Avenue, S.E.;
Thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said Prospect Avenue,
S.E., 20 feet to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Permanent Parcel No. 101-26-045
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lot No. 101, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Prospect Avenue, S.E., at a point distant 20 feet Easterly of its intersection with the Easterly line of East
4th Street, S.E., (formerly Sheriff
Street);
Thence Northerly and parallel
with said East 4th Street, S.E., 80
feet;
Thence Easterly parallel with
Prospect Avenue, S.E., 20 feet;
Thence Southerly parallel with
said East 4th Street, S.E., 80 feet to
the Northerly line of Prospect Avenue S.E.;
Thence Westerly along the Northerly line of Prospect Avenue, S.E.,
20 feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Permanent Parcel No. 101-26-046
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and know as being part of
Original Two Acre Lot No. 101, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Prospect Avenue S.E., at its point of
intersection with the Easterly line
of East 4th Street, (formerly Sheriff
Street);
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line of Prospect Avenue, S.E.,
20 feet;
Thence Northerly parallel with
said Easterly line of East 4th Street,
80 feet;
Thence Westerly parallel with
said Northerly line of Prospect
Avenue S.E., 20 feet to said Easterly line of East 4th Street;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line of East 4th Street, 80 feet
to the place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Said premises are conveyed subject to ninety-nine year lease, dated
November 30, 1912, and recorded in
Volume 57, Page 82 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Section 2. That the Director of
Law is hereby directed to apply to
a court of competent jurisdiction to
have a jury impaneled to make
inquiry into and assess the compensation to be paid for the fee simple
interests hereinbefore described.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

The City Record

June 19, 2002

55

Ord. No. 540-02.
By Council Members Johnson, White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 133.29 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 923-95, passed November 20, 1995, relating to golf course fees.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 133.29 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
923-95, passed November 20, 1995, is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 133.29 Golf Course Fees
(a) Effective January 1, 2002, the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties shall be authorized to collect
the following fees at municipal golf courses, provided, however, that the fees set forth in subdivision (9) may
be amended from time to time by the Board of Control:
(1) Regular rates:
9 holes
18 holes
(2) Senior rates:
9 holes
18 holes

Monday-Friday

Weekends

$ 8.00
$15.00

$ 8.50
$16.00

Monday-Friday

Weekends

$ 5.00
$ 9.00

$ 5.00
$ 9.00

To qualify for senior rates, a player must be at least sixty (60) years old and must provide positive photo identification.
(3) Junior rates:

Monday-Friday

Weekends

9 holes

$ 5.00 for nonresidents and
Free for City
residents

$ 5.00 for nonresidents and
Free for City
residents

18 holes

$ 9.00

$ 9.00

To qualify for junior rates, a player must be no more than eighteen (18) years old and must provide positive
photo identification upon request.
(4) City Residency rates:

Monday-Friday

Weekends

9 holes
18 holes

$ 7.50
$14.00

$ 8.00
$15.00

To qualify for City Residency rates, a player must reside in the City of Cleveland and verify such residency
by providing photo identification and a recent utility bill.
(5) Winter rates:
9 holes
18 holes

Monday-Friday

Weekends

$ 6.00
$11.00

$ 6.00
$11.00

The Commissioner of Recreation shall determine, based on weather and course conditions, the dates during
which winter rates shall be in effect.
(6) Additional 9 holes. Players under categories listed in divisions (1) through (5) of this section who purchase
a 9-hole ticket and wish to play an additional 9 holes may do so by presenting the 9-hole ticket to the cashier
within three hours from the time of purchase and paying the additional amount required to equal the 18-hole
rate.
(7) Tent Rental: $200.00
(8) Locker Rental at Highland Park: $50.00 per season
(9) Banquet Room Rental at Highland Park — Catered Events:
No. of People
less than 75
75 to 150

Golf Outing*
$150.00
$250.00

*Discount rate for golfers who wish to rent the facility.

1415

Other Functions
$200.00
$300.00

The City Record

56

June 19, 2002

Rental is based on a five (5) hour period and up to two (2) hours prior to the event for set-up. The banquet
room closes at 12:00 a.m. The dance floor may be rented for an additional $150.00 per event. The City’s restaurant
Concessionaire shall be used exclusively to provide food for catered events, unless the Director approves the use
of an independent caterer. Any beverages, including alcohol, shall be purchased from the City’s Concessionaire.
Security is to be arranged through the Village of Highland Hills’ police department and is the responsibility of
the group renting the banquet room.
(9) Banquet Room Rental at Highland Park — Non-Catered Events:
The banquet room may be rented Monday through Thursday for meetings and events. Food or beverages
shall be purchased from the City’s Concessionaire, or, with the Director’s approval, may be provided by the
group renting the banquet room. The rental rate shall be twenty-five ($25.00) per hour with a maximum of
a four (4) hour rental period. The banquet room will close no later than 10:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday.
Net proceeds from fees collected at the Highland and Seneca Golf Courses shall be expended for facility
improvements.
(b) Effective January 1, 2003, the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties shall be authorized to collect
the following fees at municipal golf courses, provided, however, that the fees set forth in subdivision (8) may
be amended from time to time by the Board of Control:
(1) Regular rates:
9 holes
18 holes

Monday-Friday

Weekends

$10.00
$19.00

$10.50
$20.00

(2) Senior rates: (Applicable before 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and after 3:00 p.m. on weekends and
holidays)

9 holes
18 holes

Monday-Friday

Weekends

$ 6.00
$11.00

$ 6.00
$11.00

To qualify for senior rates, a player must be at least sixty (60) years old and must provide positive photo identification.
(3) Junior rates: (Applicable before 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and after 3:00 p.m. on weekends and
holidays)

9 holes

18 holes

Monday-Friday

Weekends

$ 6.00 for nonresidents and
Free for City
residents

$ 6.00 for nonresidents and
Free for City
residents

$11.00

$11.00

To qualify for junior rates, a player must be no more than eighteen (18) years old and must provide positive
photo identification upon request.
(4) City Residency rates:

Monday-Friday

Weekends

9 holes
18 holes

$ 9.50
$18.00

$10.00
$19.00

To qualify for City Residency rates, a player must reside in the City of Cleveland and verify such residency
by providing photo identification and a recent utility bill.
(5) Winter rates:
9 holes
18 holes

Monday-Friday

Weekends

$ 8.00
$15.00

$ 8.00
$15.00

The Commissioner of Recreation shall determine, based on weather and course conditions, the dates during
which winter rates shall be in effect.
(6) Additional 9 holes. Players under categories listed in divisions (1) through (5) of this section who purchase
a 9-hole ticket and wish to play an additional 9 holes may do so by presenting the 9-hole ticket to the cashier
within three hours from the time of purchase and paying the additional amount required to equal the 18-hole rate.

1416

The City Record

June 19, 2002

57

(7) Tent Rental: $220.00
(8) Banquet Room Rental at Highland Park
Rental shall be based on a four (4) hour period and up to two (2) hours prior to the event for set-up.
Any events exceeding the four (4) hour period shall be charged for each additional hour in accordance
with the rates provided below. The banquet room closes at 12:00 a.m. on Friday through Sunday and Holidays and at such time determined by the Commissioner of Recreation on Monday through Thursday. All
events shall begin and end at the time stated on the permit, and all events on Monday through Thursday
shall end one half hour prior to the close of the facility. The dance floor may be rented for an additional
$150.00 per event. The City’s Concessionaire shall be used exclusively to provide food and beverages for all
catered events, unless the Director approves the use of an independent caterer. All beverages, including
alcoholic beverages, shall be purchased from the City or the City’s Concessionaire. Security is to be provided through the Village of Highland Hills Police Department and is the responsibility of the group renting the banquet room to arrange and pay for such security, as billed by the Village of Highland Hills
Police Department.
A. Banquet Room Rental — Friday through Sunday and Holidays
Rental Rate for City

Rental Rates for Non-City

Catered Golf Outing

Catered Golf Outing and

Events

Non-Golf Events

$300.00

$550.00

In addition, events exceeding the four (4) hour rental period, as provided above, shall be charged the following rental rate for each additional hour:
City Catered Events

Non-City Catered Events

$ 75.00

$140.00

B. Banquet Room Rental — Monday through Thursday
Rental Rate for City

Rental Rates for Non-City

Catered Golf Outing

Catered Golf Outing and

Events

Non-Golf Events

$200.00

$260.00

In addition, events exceeding the four (4) hour rental period, as provided above, shall be charged the following rental rate for each additional hour:
City Catered Events

Non-City Catered Events

$ 50.00

$ 65.00

Golf leagues may, one time per golf season, rent the banquet room for a Non-City Catered Event at the City
Catered Event Rate, Monday through Thursday.
Net proceeds from fees collected at the Highland and Seneca Golf Courses shall be expended for facility improvements.
Section 2. That existing Section 133.29 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 923-95, passed November 20, 1995, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

1417

58
Ord. No. 585-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance designating two City officials to serve in
their official capacities on the Board
of the Doan Brook Watershed Partnership and authorizing a City contribution to represent the City’s portion of partnership funding.
Whereas, the Doan Brook Watershed
Partnership
(“Partnership”)
was certified in December, 2001, as
a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization
for the purpose of, among other
things, protection and improvement
of the Doan Brook watershed and
the development of a management
plan for Doan Brook; and
Whereas, the Council wishes to
formally designate Councilmember
Sabra Pierce Scott to represent the
City’s interests by serving on the
Board of Trustees of the Partnership; and
Whereas, this Council wishes for
two
City
officials
to
serve
as
trustees of the Partnership; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that the immediate
effectiveness of this ordinance will
enable the Partnership to proceed,
as soon as possible, with activities
leading to fulfillment of the Partnership’s goals, and to accelerate
the
realization
of
the
benefits
expected to be derived by the City
and its residents therefrom;
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby declares that the City wishes to
participate in the Partnership, and
hereby formally states that two City
officials, in their official capacities,
may serve as trustees of the Partnership, and instructs them to represent the City and the City’s interests thereon. One of those trustees
shall be appointed by the Mayor and
the other shall be appointed by this
Council. The term of appointment
shall be three years.
Section 2. That the City wishes to
contribute the amount of $18,000 per
year for a term of three (3) years
to represent the City of Cleveland’s
portion of partnership funding. The
first annual payment of $18,000 shall
be paid from Fund No. 54 SF 001,
Request No. 109008, and the remainder of the payments shall be paid,
subject to annual appropriations,
from the fund or funds to which are
credited funds authorized for this
purpose.
Section 3. That in lieu of all or a
portion of each $18,000 annual payment authorized herein, the City
may,
at
its
discretion,
provide
administrative or other services.
Section 4. That this Council hereby appoints Sabra Pierce Scott to
serve as one of the City trustees for
a term of three years.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

The City Record
Ord. No. 586-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials to
perform emissions tests on not to
exceed three turbines, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials to perform emissions tests on not to exceed three
turbines, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall
be taken in such manner as to permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 115960)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 587-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials to
maintain and repair various types of
valves,
actuators
and
appurtenances, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

1418

June 19, 2002
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials to maintain and
repair various types of valves, actuators and appurtenances, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 114668)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 677-02.
By Council Members White and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of the 2003 criminal and
civil filing system, including materials necessary to file and retrieve
cases,
for
the
Department
of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Clerk of
the Cleveland Municipal Court is
hereby authorized to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
period of one year for the necessary
items of the 2003 criminal and civil
filing
system,
including
folders,
labels, tabs, envelopes, shelving, and
other materials necessary to file and

June 19, 2002
retrieve cases in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Department of Finance, on behalf of
the Cleveland Municipal Court. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
107648)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 728-02.
By Council Members Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance supplementing the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by enacting
new Section 603.041 relating to disposal of dog waste; and to amend
Section 603.04 of said codified ordinances, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1133-92, passed April 26, 1993,
relating to dog nuisances.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 603.041 as follows:
Section 603.041 Disposal of Dog
Waste
(a) No person who has the charge
or control of a dog on any public
street,
sidewalk,
pathway,
park,
pedestrian way or any public facility or on any private property not
owned or possessed by the owner or
person having control of such dog
shall fail to maintain in his possession sufficient and readily usable
wrappers, materials or implements
to remove and properly dispose of
any fecal matter that may be
deposited on the ground by the dog.
(b) No person who has the charge
or control of a dog on any public
street,
sidewalk,
pathway,
park,
pedestrian way or any public facility or on any private property not
owned or possessed by the owner or

The City Record

59

person having control of such dog
shall fail to remove and properly
dispose of any fecal matter that
may be deposited on the ground by
the dog.
(c) A disabled person who has the
charge or control of a guide dog or
an officer who has the charge of a
police dog in the performance of law
enforcement duties shall be exempt
from the provisions of this section.
(d) Whoever violates this section
is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
In addition to any other method of
enforcement provided for in this
chapter, the provisions of this section
may
be
enforced
by
the
issuance of a citation in compliance
with Rule 4.1 of the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
Section 2. That Section 603.04 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1133-92, passed April
26, 1993, is hereby amended to read
as follows:

this section, the offense created
herein may be enforced upon a first,
second, or third offense by the
issuance of a citation in compliance
with Rule 4.1 of the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
Section 3. That existing Section
603.04 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by ordinance No. 1133-92, passed
April 26, 1993, is hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Section 603.04 Dog Nuisances
(a) No owner or person in charge
or control of a dog, or owner or person in charge of such premises upon
which a dog is located, shall permit
a dog nuisance to occur or continue
within the City.
(b) For the purposes of this section, each of the following constitutes a dog nuisance:
(1) a dog which bites or barks,
yelps, howls, or bays in such a manner or to such extent as to disturb
the peace and quiet or endanger the
health of any persons, other than a
dog which bites in such manner or
to such extent as to constitute a
vicious dog, as defined in division
(k) of Section 604.01.;
(2) a dog which scratches or digs
in or urinates upon any lawn, tree,
shrub, plant, building, or any other
public or private property other than
the property of the dog’s owner or
the property of a person in charge
or control of the dog.
(c) On complaint of any person to
the police that a dog nuisance has
occurred or is continuing, a police
officer or dog warden shall issue
notice of such complaint to the
owner or person in charge or control of the dog which constitutes the
nuisance complained of, or to the
owner or person in charge of such
premises upon which the dog nuisance complained of occurs.
(d) Any person who fails to abate
a
dog
nuisance
after
having
received a notice pursuant to division (c) of this section shall be
guilty of creating a dog nuisance.
Each day upon which the dog nuisance occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense, and the
offender shall be subject to the following penalties:
(1) for a first offense, a fine of
fifty dollars ($50.00);
(2) for a
second offense occurring within four (4) months of the
first offense, a fine of seventy-five
dollars (75.00);
(3) for a third offense occurring
within four (4) months of the first
offense, a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00);
(4) for a fourth and any subsequent offense occurring within four
(4) months of the first offense, the
dog which constitutes the nuisance
shall be impounded pursuant to Section 603.03.
(e) In addition to any other
method of enforcement provided in

Ord. No. 760-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain the lifting equipment on one plate truck, for
the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
repair and maintain the lifting
equipment on one plate truck in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 109102)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

1419

60
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 772-02.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety, Division of EMS for the Domestic Preparedness Grant; and to enter
into contract with St. Vincent Charity Hospital to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $120,000.00, from the
Ohio Department of Public Safety,
Division of EMS, to conduct the
Domestic Preparedness Grant, for
the purposes set forth in the application and according thereto; that
the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 772-02-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if said extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized to
enter into contract with St. Vincent
Charity Hospital for training necessary to implement the grant. Said
contract shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
proceeds of the grant accepted pursuant to this ordinance and are hereby appropriated for this purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 773-02.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 360-02,
passed April 1, 2002, relating to a
contract with City Year to perform
community service work and to collaborate
with
various
nonprofit
agencies.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 360-02, passed April 1,
2002, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract with City Year to perform community service work and to collaborate with non-profit agencies, in an
amount not to exceed $100,000.00,
payable from Fund No. 01-700401638000, Request No. 106782.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 360-02, passed April
1, 2002, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 775-02.
By Council Members Gordon, Britt
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to expend
Community
Development
Block
Grant funds for the Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP)
and the CHORE Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 28, from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of One Hundred TwentyFive Thousand Dollars ($125,000.00)
from Fund No. 14 SF 028, Request
No. 104697, are hereby appropriated
for costs of the Department of
Aging associated with conducting
the Senior Homeowners Assistance
Program (“SHAP”) and the CHORE
Program in conjunction with the
Community
Development
Block
Grant Program.
Section 2. That, prior to expending
funds hereunder, the Director of
Aging and the Director of Community Development shall enter into a
memorandum of understanding for
this program.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

1420

June 19, 2002
Ord. No. 776-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development
and
the
Consumer
Affairs to expend Community Development Block Grant funds for fair
housing services.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 28, from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds are hereby appropriated for costs of the
Department of Consumer Affairs for
fair housing services.
Section 2. That the Director of
Consumer Affairs is hereby authorized to enter into contracts with
outside agencies for the purpose of
providing fair housing services in
conjunction with the Community
Development Block Grant Program.
Section 3. That prior to expending
funds hereunder the Director of
Community Development shall enter
into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Director of the Consumer Affairs for the purposes
described in Sections 1 and 2 above.
Section 4. That the aggregate cost
of the expenditure and the contracts
authorized in Sections 1 and 2 shall
be in an amount not to exceed
$100,000.00 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 028 Request No.
104696.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 779-02.
By Council Members Gordon, Johnson and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Community Development to expend Community Development Block Grant funds
for the operation of the Project
Clean Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 28 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of Five Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($500,000.00) from Fund No.
14 SF 028 Request No. 104695 are
hereby appropriated for costs of the
Department of Parks, Recreation

June 19, 2002
and Properties for the operation of
the Project Clean Program.
Section 2. That prior to expending
funds hereunder the Director of
Community Development shall enter
into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purposes described in Section 1
above.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 780-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at East 59th, 68th, 69th,
70th Streets to Greater Cleveland
Habitat for Humanity, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-22-041 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-22-041
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
46 in Coleman and Van Tine’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 335 the plat of
which is recorded in Volume 17 of
Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 70th Street, S.E. 274 feet West
from the West line of East 71st
Street, and parallel therewith at a
point in said East line 207.92 feet
North from the North line of Central
Avenue; thence East as right angles
134 feet; thence North 40 feet; thence
West 134 feet to the East line of

The City Record
East 70th Street; thence South along
the East line 40 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-22-064 as
more
fully
described
below
to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity, Inc.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-22-064
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
97 in Coleman and Van Tine’s Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 335, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 17
of Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records, and forming a parcel of
land 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 70th Street (formerly
Irvington
Street)
and
extending
back 138.49 feet deep on the Northerly line, 138.56 feet deep on the
Southerly line and having a rear
line of 40 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-23-027 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity, Inc.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-23-027
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
66 in James H. and Harriet Clark’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 335, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Allotment in Volume 9 of Maps, Page 17
of Cuyahoga County Records. Said
Sublot No. 66 has a frontage of 40
feet on the Easterly side of East
68th
Street
(formerly
Harriet
Avenue) and extends back between
parallel lines 126 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-23-042 as
more fully described, to Greater
Cleveland Habitat for Humanity,
Inc.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-23-042
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.

1421

61
11 in Payne, Clark’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 335 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 11 of Maps, Page
33 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40.17 feet front on the Easterly side of East 69th Street, 139.3
feet deep on the Northerly line,
139.25 feet deep on the Southerly
line and 40.17 feet wide in the rear,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-23-068 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity, Inc.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-23-068
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
72 in Coleman and Van Tine’s Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 335, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 17
of Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40 feet front
on the Easterly side of East 70th
Street (formerly Irvington Street)
and extending back of equal width
134 feet, as appears by said plat.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-28-029 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity, Inc.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-28-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
233 in W.S. Chamberlain Allotment
of a part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 334, as shown by the
recorded plat of said Allotment in
Volume 6 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 50
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 59th Street (formerly First
Avenue) and extending back of
equal width 150 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-064 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity, Inc.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-064
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

62
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
45 in W.S. and M.W. Chamberlain’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 334 and 335,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 59th Street, extending back of
equal width, 160 feet deep, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 15. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 16. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 17. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 18. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 787-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant from the Mt.
Sinai Health Care Foundation for
the Mt. Sinai Health Care Foundation Program to develop and prepare
a strategic plan of delivery services
for the Department of Aging; and
authorizing said Director to employ
one or more consultants to provide
professional services to develop and
prepare a strategic plan.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Aging is hereby authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $59,500.00, from the Mt.

The City Record
Sinai Health Care Foundation, to
conduct the Mt. Sinai Health Care
Foundation Program to develop and
prepare a strategic plan of delivery
services for the Department of
Aging, for the purposes set forth in
the summary and according thereto;
that the Director of Aging is hereby authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the summary for
said grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
said grant, File No. 787-02-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Aging
is
hereby
authorized
to
employ by contract one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to develop and prepare a strategic
plan for delivery of services to
seniors and for strategies to meet
unmet needs and to develop a coordinated service delivery system.
The selection of said consultant or
consultants for such services shall
be made by the Board of Control
upon the nomination of the Director
of Aging from a list of qualified
consultants
available
for
such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Aging for the purpose of compiling such a list. The
compensation to be paid for such
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Aging, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the costs for the
professional services contemplated
shall be paid from the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 831-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into a requirement contract without
competitive bidding with Dominion
East Ohio for the purchase of natural gas transportation services, and
authorizing the purchase by requirement contract
of natural gas, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period of one year
with a one-year option to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

1422

June 19, 2002
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that natural gas transportation services are non-competitive
and cannot be secured from any
source other than the Dominion East
Ohio. Therefore, the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract with said Dominion East Ohio
for a period of one year, with one
(1) option exercisable by the Director of Finance, to renew for an additional one-year term, for natural gas
transportation services, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the various divisions of
City government.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period up to
one year, with one (1) option exercisable by the Director of Finance,
to renew for an additional one-year
term, for the purchase of natural
gas to be transported by the Dominion East Ohio in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
one year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 3. That the cost of said
contracts shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchases thereunder, which
purchases, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contracts
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 104718)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 832-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the payment of membership
dues of the City of Cleveland in
various professional organizations.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

June 19, 2002
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to cause
payment of 2002 membership dues of
the City of Cleveland to be made to
the Ohio Municipal League, from
Fund No. 01-999800-623100, Request No.
30591. Said membership dues will
include forty-five (45) subscriptions
to Cities and Village Magazine.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
cause payment of 2002 membership
dues of the City of Cleveland to be
made to Build up Greater Cleveland,
from
Fund
No.
01-999800-624700,
Request No. 30591.
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
cause payment of 2002 membership
dues of the City of Cleveland to be
made to the United States Conference of Mayors, from Fund No. 01999800-623700, Request No. 30591.
Section 4. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
cause payment of 2002 membership
dues of the City of Cleveland to be
made to the National League of
Cities, from Fund No. 01-999800623800, Request No. 30591.
Section 5. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
cause payment of 2002 membership
dues of the City of Cleveland to be
made to the Downtown Development
Corporation, from Fund No. 01999800-624600, Request No. 30591.
Section 6. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
cause payment of 2002 membership
dues of the City of Cleveland to be
made to NOACA, from Fund No. 01999800-623200, Request No. 30591.
Section 7. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to cause
payment of 2002 membership dues of
the City of Cleveland to be made to
the Greater Cleveland International
Trade Alliance, from Fund No. 01999800-624800, Request No. 30591.
Section 8. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
cause payment of 2002 membership
dues of the City of Cleveland to be
made to the Mayors and Managers
Association,
from
Fund
No.
01999800-623300, Request No. 30591.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 837-02.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Johnson, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing, or
otherwise improving various Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties facilities; authorizing the
Director of Public Service to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement; and authorizing said
director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating,
reconstructing, or otherwise improving various Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties facilities,
for the Department of Public Service, by contract duly let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for a gross price for
the improvement.
Section 2. That, provided the City
of Cleveland sells the general obligation bonds authorized by Ordinance
Nos. 373-02 and 375-02, passed March
11, 2002, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to enter
into contract for the making of the
above public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for a gross price for
the improvement provided however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of said director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of said improvement.
Section 3. That, provided the City
of Cleveland sells the general obligation bonds authorized by Ordinance
Nos. 373-02 and 375-02, passed March
11, 2002, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to employ
by contract one or more architects
and/or engineers or one or more
firms of architects and/or engineers
for the purpose of supplementing
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
design
the
public
improvement
authorized above.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Public
Service from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Service for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract
herein authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved
by the Director of Public Service,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 4. That the cost of said
improvement and services hereby
authorized shall be paid from the
proceeds of the sale of the general
obligation bonds of the City of
Cleveland authorized by Ordinance
Nos. 373-02 and 375-02, passed March
11, 2002, and from Fund Nos. 20 SF
191, 20 SF 300, 20 SF 310, 20 SF 320,
20 SF 331, 20 SF 340, 20 SF 351, 20
SF 362, 20 SF 371, 20 SF 381, 11 SF
006, Request No. 115123.

1423

63
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 838-02.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Reed, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing, or
otherwise improving various Department of Public Safety facilities;
authorizing the Director of Public
Service to enter into contract for the
making of such improvement; and
authorizing said director to employ
one or more professional consultants
to design the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating,
reconstructing, or otherwise improving various Department of Public
Safety facilities, for the Department
of Public Service, by contract duly
let to the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement.
Section 2. That, provided the City
of Cleveland sells the general obligation bonds authorized by Ordinance
No. 373-02, passed March 11, 2002, the
Director of Public Service is hereby
authorized to enter into contract for
the making of the above public
improvement
with
the
lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement provided however, that
each separate trade and each distinct
component
part
of
said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of said director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of said improvement.
Section 3. That, provided the City
of Cleveland sells the general obligation bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 373-02, passed March 11,
2002, the Director of Public Service
is hereby authorized to employ by
contract one or more architects
and/or engineers or one or more
firms of architects and/or engineers
for the purpose of supplementing
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to

64
design
the
public
improvement
authorized above.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Public
Service from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Service for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract
herein authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved
by the Director of Public Service,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 4. That the cost of said
improvement and services hereby
authorized shall be paid from the
proceeds of the sale of the general
obligation bonds of the City of
Cleveland authorized by Ordinance
No. 373-02, passed March 11, 2002,
and from Fund Nos. 20 SF 191, 20 SF
300, 20 SF 310, 20 SF 320, 20 SF 331,
20 SF 340, 20 SF 351, 20 SF 362, 20
SF 371, 20 SF 381, 11 SF 006, Request
No. 115125.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 841-02.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Sweeney, Gordon and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 5 of Ordinance
No. 1138-01, passed June 19, 2001; and
to supplement said ordinance by
enacting new Section 4a thereof,
relating to the improvement of
League Park.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 5 of Ordinance No. 1138-01,
passed June 19, 2001, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of improving
League Park, and authorizing the
Directors of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, Public Service and/or
Economic Development to enter into
contract for the making of such
improvement;
authorizing
said
Directors to enter into contract with
City Architecture Inc. to design and
implement the improvement.
Section 5. That the costs of said
services and improvement hereby
authorized shall be paid from Fund
No. 17 SF 003 and 10 SF 501, Request
No. 26677.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 5 of Ordinance No. 1138-

The City Record
01, passed June 19, 2001, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 113801, passed June 19, 2001, is hereby
supplemented by adding new Section 4a to read as follows:
Section 4a. That the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
Public
Service
and/or
Economic
Development are hereby authorized
to enter into contract with City
Architecture Inc. for professional
services necessary to perform the
following
services
contained
on
page 10 of their proposal dated April
12, 2002, as supplemented by a letter dated April 30, 2002: Pre-design,
Phase I all services, Phase II and
III Schematic design, and also to
include a reimbursable budget, for a
total of $384,500.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 842-02.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Section 6 of Ordinance No.
2831-86, passed February 9, 1987, as
amended, relating to establishing a
Community Reinvestment Area in
the area bounded by Lakeside Avenue on the north, W. 6th Street on
the east, St. Clair Avenue on the
south, and W. 9th Street on the
west.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 6 of Ordinance No. 2831-86, passed February
9, 1987, as amended by Ordinance
Nos. 1171-94, passed July 20, 1994,
959-99, passed June 7, 1999 and 209599, passed December 13, 1999, is
hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 6. That the Community
Reinvestment
Area
hereinabove
described shall expire on June 15,
2003, unless an extension is authorized by an amendment by Council.
Section 2. That existing Section 6
of Ordinance No. 2831-86, passed February 9, 1987, as amended by Ordinance Nos. 1171-94, passed July 20,
1994, 959-99, passed June 7, 1999 and
2095-99, passed December 13, 1999, is
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

1424

June 19, 2002
Ord. No. 843-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with Cleveland Housing Network, or
its designee, to provide development
loan assistance in the form of a
Community
Development
Block
Grant float loan for the purchase,
rehabilitation or construction of low
income rental housing.
Whereas, this ordinances constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Cleveland Housing Network, or
its designee, to provide development
loan assistance in the form of a
Community
Development
Block
Grant float loan in the amount of
$3,500,000.00 for the purchase, rehabilitation or construction of low
income rental housing in the City of
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan shall be determined by the
Director of Community Development
in
accordance
with
regulations,
state and local law, and said Director is authorized to amend said
terms from time to time, as he
deems necessary to remain consistent with said laws and regulations.
Section 3. That the cost of said
contract shall be paid from Fund No.
14 SC810, Request No. 125705.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development shall obtain an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit to secure repayment
of said loan. Any security instrument shall be approved by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in the CDBGfund.
Section 6. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under federal regulations and such fees are hereby
appropriated to cover costs incurred
in the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. Such fees shall be deposited
into the CDBGfund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete
the
transaction
authorized
hereunder.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

June 19, 2002
Ord. No. 844-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating CDBG and Federal HOME Program funds for the administration
of the Housing Rehabilitation Programs; and authorizing the Director
of
Community
Development
to
employ one or more professional
consultants
to
provide
property
inspections in compliance with Section 8 Housing Quality Standards.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received CDBG Year 28 and
Year 2002 Federal HOME Program
grant from the United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That CDBG and Federal
HOME Program funds are hereby
appropriated for the administration
of the Housing Rehabilitation Programs pursuant to the following
schedule:
Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,180,000
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
20,000
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to employ by contract
one or more consultants or one or
more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to perform property
inspections to comply with Section 8
Housing Quality Standards.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Community Development from a list of qualified consultants available for such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Community Development for the purpose of compiling
such a list. The compensation to be
paid for such services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Community Development, and certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the cost of the professional services herein contemplated shall be in an amount not to
exceed $20,000.00 and shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 14 SF 028 and 13 SF
955, Request No. 104700.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 845-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development

The City Record
Block Grant funds for administrative expenses of the Department of
Community Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 28 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $2,384,000 from Fund No.
14 SF 028 are hereby appropriated
for the administrative expenses of
the
Department
of
Community
Development in conjunction with
the Community Development Block
Grant Program, Year 28 and pursuant to the following schedule:
Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . $2,245,000
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 1 3 9,000
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 846-02.
By Council Members Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to operate the Storefront
Renovation
Program
with
Community Development Block Grant
funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into grant agreements with Storefront Renovation
Program applicants, and to enter
into agreements to reimburse eligible administrative costs to community development corporations for
implementation of the Storefront
Renovation Program. The funds for
these agreements shall come from
Fund No. 14 SC 028 Request No.
125702 in the amount of $1,150,000.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept program income
monies in repayment from local
development corporations under the
Storefront Renovation Program and
to utilize this program income, other
Community
Development
Block
Grant program income and Kiosk
program income in a revolving fund
for additional expenditures under
the Storefront Renovation Program,
and such program income is hereby
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 3. Authorizing the City to
accept promissory notes, naming the
City of Cleveland as payee, and
mortgages, naming the City of
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any

1425

65
other security instrument executed
to evidence and secure repayment of
loans, costs and fees under the
City’s Storefront Renovation Program.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development be and is
hereby authorized to enter into forbearance agreements with any recipient of a validly existing loan, administered by the City under the
City’s Storefront Renovation Program.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to collect from persons or
entities with whom the City is entering into loan agreements or forebearance agreements an amount
equal to any amount spent for services related to such agreements,
such as title searches, credit bureau
reports and document filing fees.
Such fees shall be deposited into
Fund No. 14.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 847-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a contract
with the non-profit agency to operate a community garden program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with one or more non-profit agencies
to operate a community gardening
program
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract or contracts shall be in an
amount not to exceed $120,000.00,
and shall be paid from Fund No. 14
SC 028 Request No. 125703.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 848-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for administrative expenses of the Code Enforcement Program.

The City Record

66
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 28 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $1,516,000 from Fund No.
14 SF 028 are hereby appropriated
for the administrative expenses of
the
Department
of
Community
Development in conjunction with
the Community Development Block
Grant Program, Year 28 and pursuant to the following schedule:
Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,481,000
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
3 5,000
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 849-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4a of Ordinance No. 1776-A90, passed April 22, 1991, as amended, relating to establishing the City
of
Cleveland,
except
the
area
defined as the “Downtown Plan
Area” by the Civic Vision 2000 Plan,
as a Community Reinvestment Area.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 4a of Ordinance No. 1776-A-90, passed April 22,
1991, as amended by Ordinance Nos.
960-99, passed June 7, 1999, 2093-99,
passed December 13, 1999, and 134101, passed August 15, 2001, is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 4a. That the Community
Reinvestment
Area
hereinabove
described shall expire on June 15,
2003, unless an extension is authorized by amendment by Council.
Section 2. That existing Section 4a
of Ordinance No. 1776-A-90, passed
April 22, 1991, as amended by Ordinance Nos. 960-99, passed June 7,
1999, 2093-99, passed December 13,
1999, and 1341-01, passed August 15,
2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 854-02.
By Council Members Lewis and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Fraternal Order of Police,
Lodge 8.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code and subject to
an arbitration award, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge 8, set
forth in File No. 854-02-A, for the
period from April 1, 2001 through
March 31, 2004, which provides,
among other things, for an increase
in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:
Increase

Effective Date
of Increase

Three percent (3%)

April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 855-02.
By Council Members Lewis and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, Security Officers.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the Ohio
Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association,
Security Officers, set forth in File
No. 855-02-A, for the period from
April 1, 2001 through March 31, 2004,
which provides, among other things,
for an increase in the salaries and
wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:
Increase

Effective Date
of Increase

Three percent (3%)

April 1, 2001

Three and one-half
percent (3.5%)

April 1, 2002

Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2003

1426

June 19, 2002
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 899-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to modify and maintain a
trac-vac residuals collection system,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
modify and maintain a trac-vac
residuals collection system, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 114472)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

June 19, 2002
Ord. No. 902-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of West 7th Place hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the day of February
11, 2001, the Council of the City of
Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
2374-01 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of West 7th Place,
hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 2374-01 has
been served upon the owners of all
the property abutting West 7th
Place affected by said Resolution,
notifying the said property owners
of the time and place at which
objections can be heard before the
Board of Revision of Assessments,
and
Whereas, on the 7th day of May,
2002, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of
West
7th
Place,
hereinafter
described, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating West 7th Place, hereinafter
described and that it will not be
detrimental to the general interest
and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
the following described real property: situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of
West 7th Place a.) The easterly 2.00
feet of West 7th Place (12 feet
wide), extending from the southwesterly line of University Road,
S.W. as proposed to be widened,
southerly to the southeasterly extension of the northeasterly line of University Row, S.W. (16.00 feet wide),
as proposed to be dedicated by the
subdivision, Dedication and Widening Plat for Sutton Builders, Inc.
(proposed) b.) The westerly 2.00
feet of West 7th Place (12 feet
wide), extending from the southwesterly line of University Road,
S.W. as proposed to be widened,
southerly to the northeasterly line
of University Row, S.W. (16.00 feet
wide), as proposed to be dedicated,
by the Subdivision, Dedication and
Widening Plat for Sutton Builders,
Inc. (proposed), be and the same is
hereby vacated.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of West 7th Place, herein
provided by sending him a copy of
this Ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

The City Record
Ord. No. 929-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various social service
agencies, community development or
local development corporations and
private for profit entities and to
enter into or amend memorandums
of understanding with various City
of Cleveland departments to implement the City’s community development programs and to expend funds
for
the
operation
of
programs
administered by the Department of
Community Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 28 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has approved the Year
27 Community Development Block
Grant Plan as set forth in File No.
130-02-A, pursuant to Ordinance No.
130-02, passed April 1, 2002; and
Whereas, in prior Block Grant
years, the Council has approved
Block Grant Plans; and
Whereas, the Block Grant Plans
as approved commit funds to Neighborhood
Development
Activities
(“NDA”), which are CDBG eligible
activities proposed by the various
Council members; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with various social service agencies, community development or local development corporations and private for
profit entities for activities and programs that are eligible under the
Community
Development
Block
Grant (“CDBG”) Program and are
consistent with the City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with
various
City
departments to implement activities
and programs that are eligible under
the CDBG Program and are consistent with the City’s Community
Development objectives and policies.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into contract using NDA Funds with
rehabilitation service providers, tenants, homeowners, and entities providing services necessary to process
loans and grants to implement the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs, Paint Refund Program and
other programs administered by the
Department of Community Development.
Section 4. That prior to entering
into or amending those contracts or
memorandums of understanding, or
expending any funds, the Director
of Community Development shall
receive written approval from the
Council member whose ward line

1427

67
item is to fund the activity or program, provided that the amount for
such activity or program does not
exceed the amount allocated for the
Council member’s ward pursuant to
the relevant Community Development Block Grant plan.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts, memorandums of understanding and expenditures for the programs administered by the Department of Community Development shall not exceed $9,450,000.00
and shall be paid from Fund Nos. 14
SC 028.
Section 6. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into or
amend contracts with the entities
administering the NDA program
that generated the program income
in an amount not to exceed that generated
program
income
and
to
expend funds for the programs
administered by the Department of
Community Development that generated
program
income
in
an
amount not to exceed that generated program income in an amount
not to exceed that generated program income, all to be paid from the
revolving fund in Fund 14.
Section 7. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of loans made under this program.
Section 8. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter in forbearance
agreements with any recipient of a
validly existing loan administered
by the City, and to charge and
accept fees and to expend such fees
to cover costs incurred in the preparation of loan documents, closing,
and servicing costs. Such fees shall
be deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 14.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 930-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with Cleveland Housing Network, or
its designee, for the acquisition,
rehabilitation, or construction of low
income housing units.
Whereas, this ordinances constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Cleveland Housing Network, or
its designee, for the acquisition,

68
rehabilitation or construction of low
income
rental
or
lease-purchase
housing units.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $2,000,000.00, and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 13 SC 955,
Request No. 125704.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 931-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with Cleveland Action to Support
Housing (CASH) for administrative
costs to implement housing rehabilitation, new housing construction
and commercial redevelopment loan
programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Cleveland Action to Support
Housing (CASH) for administrative
costs to implement housing rehabilitation, new housing construction
and commercial redevelopment loan
programs in the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the aggregate cost
of said contract shall be in an
amount not to exceed $500,000.00,
with $150,000 to be paid from Fund
No. 14 SF 028 and $350,000 to be paid
from Program Income deposited into
Fund No. 14 SF 028, Request No.
125706.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 934-02.
By Council Members Britt, Gordon,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a loan and
grant agreement with Buckeye Area
Development Corporation to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the renovation of
real property located at 11801-11
Buckeye Road, and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop the
property, located in Cleveland, Ohio.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a loan and
grant agreement with Buckeye Area
Development Corporation to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the renovation of
real property located at 11801-11
Buckeye Road, and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property, located in Cleveland,
Ohio (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Summary contained in File No.
934-02-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
loan shall not exceed Five Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00), and
shall be paid from Fund No. 17 SF
008, which funds are appropriated
for this purpose, and the cost of the
grant shall not exceed One Hundred
Five Thousand Dollars ($105,000.00),
and shall be paid from Fund No. 17
SF 652, Request No. 103557.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept the collateral
as set forth in the Summary contained in the file referenced above
in order to secure repayment of said
loan. Any security instrument shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and such fees are hereby
appropriated
to
cover
costs
incurred in the preparation of the
loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 935-02.
By Council Members Britt, Gordon
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Buckeye Area
Development Corporation to provide
for a ten year sixty percent abate-

1428

June 19, 2002
ment for certain tangible personal
property and real estate taxes as an
incentive to renovate space at 1180111 Buckeye Road, located in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, Buckeye Area Development Corporation (the “Enterprise”)
has proposed to renovate space
located at 11801-11 Buckeye Road,
and all other associated costs to
redevelop the property located in
Cleveland, Ohio; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of personal property and real
estate taxes the Enterprise would be
at a competitive disadvantage by
operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and
for the further reason that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, such assistance being immediately necessary
or such jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a ten year sixty percent (60%) abatement for certain
tangible personal property and real
estate taxes as an incentive to renovate space at 11801-11 Buckeye
Road, Cleveland, Ohio, for purposes
of leasing said space to Beech
Brook; said abatement shall be subject to annual review of the Tax
Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Summary contained in File No.
935-02-A.
The terms of said file
notwithstanding, the terms of the
tax abatement shall not be amended, nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferrable to any
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby

June 19, 2002
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code.
Such fees shall
be deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 940-02.
By Council Members Rybka, Gordon and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, the third whereas clause
and Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance
No. 2038-01, passed December 3, 2001,
relating
to
an
Enterprise
Zone
Agreement with Saltzman H-Realty
Co., Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket,
Inc. to provide for tax abatement as
an incentive to construct a new
Dave’s Supermarket at 7422 Harvard
Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title, the third
whereas clause and Sections 1 and
2 of Ordinance No. 2038-01, passed
December 3, 2001, are hereby amended to read, respectively, as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Saltzman HRealty Co., Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket, Inc. to provide for a ten
year sixty percent abatement for
certain tangible personal property
and real estate taxes as an incentive to construct a new Dave’s
Supermarket
at
7422
Harvard
Avenue,
in
the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, Saltzman H-Realty Co.,
Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket, Inc.
(the “Enterprise”) has proposed to
construct a new Dave’s Supermarket
at 7422 Harvard Avenue, in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; and
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a ten year sixty percent (60%) abatement for certain
tangible personal property and real
estate taxes as an incentive to construct a new Dave’s Supermarket at
7422 Harvard Avenue, in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone as more
fully described in the file mentioned
below; said abatement shall be subject to annual review of the Tax

The City Record
Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set froth in
the Summary contained in File No.
2038-01-B. The terms of said file
notwithstanding, the terms of the
tax abatement shall not be amended, nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferrable to any
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 2. That the existing title,
the third whereas clause and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 203801, passed December 3, 2001, are
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 985-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into a requirement contract
with A & H Equipment Co. for
Leach packer parts, for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, for a
period not to exceed one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
A & H Equipment Co. Therefore, the
Director of Public Service is hereby
authorized to make a written requirement contract with A & H
Equipment Co. for Leach packer
parts, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for a period not to
exceed one year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105821)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

1429

69
Ord. No. 991-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Environmental
Protection Agency for the Cleveland
Integrated Air Toxic Pilot Project;
authorizing said Director to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies to implement the project; and authorizing one or more
contracts for the purchase of services, equipment and supplies for
the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the approximate amount of $500,000
from the United States Environmental Protection Agency, for the Cleveland Integrated Air Toxic Pilot Project, for the purposes set forth in the
summary and budget and according
thereto; that the Director of Public
Health is hereby authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the summary and budget for
said project.
Section 2. That the summary and
budget for said project, File No. 99102-A, made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, is hereby approved
in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies for the implementation and operation of the project.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to make one or more written contracts in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of the
grant term for the necessary items
of services, equipment and supplies
necessary for implementation and
operation of the project, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Department of Public
Health. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than the grant term may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire grant
term.
The cost of said contracts or contracts shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.

70
Section 5. That the cost of the
above authorized contracts shall be
paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 992-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 2003 Federal Childhood Lead
Poisoning Prevention Program; and
to enter into contract with the Ohio
Department of Public Health for
performance
of
environmental
assessments of the residences of
Medicaid-eligible children.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the
approximate
amount
of
$312,000.00, and any other funds as
they become available, from the
Ohio Department of Health, to conduct the 2003 Federal Childhood
Lead
Poisoning
Prevention
Program, for the purposes set forth in
the summary and according thereto;
that the Director of Public Health is
hereby authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds under said
grant; and that said funds be and
they hereby are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the summary
for said grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
said grant, File No. 992-02-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation to
devote program income from first
and third party billings, estimated
at $60,611.00, is hereby approved in
all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to enter into contract with the State
of Ohio, Department of Health,
under which the City will perform
environmental assessments for lead
hazards in residences occupied by
Medicaid-eligible
children
during
the grant term. The contract shall
provide that the City will receive
compensation for performing such
assessments
in
the
estimated
amount of $33,040.00, and such other
funds that may become available
during the grant period. The Director of Finance is hereby authorized
to receive and accept such compensation on behalf of the City and the
Director of Public Health is authorized to sign such documents as are

The City Record
necessary to enter into said contract.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 993-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
accept a grant from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for
financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Environment;
and authorizing said Director to
enter into contracts for the purchase
of service and equipment necessary
to operate the Division of Environment.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $2,484,106 from the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency
for financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Environment in accordance with the purposes set forth in the respective
summary; that the Director of Public Health is hereby authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grant; and that
said funds be appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the summary
for said grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
said grant, File No. 993-02-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide in
cash matching funds in the sum of
$290,000, from the Division of Environment’s General Fund budget, in
order to receive the grant from the
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency,
as a pass through from the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to enter into contracts for the purchase of equipment and services
necessary to operate the Division of
Environment in accordance with the
purposes set forth in the above-referenced grant summary, and that
said contracts are payable from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance and the cash
match authorized herein.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

1430

June 19, 2002
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 996-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance
appropriating Community Development
Block Grant funds and Federal
Home funds for the operation of the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs; and to enter into contract
with various agencies to implement
these programs.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 28 and 2002
Federal HOME grant funds, from
the United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Community
Development
Block
Grant
funds
from Fund No. 14 SF 028, and Federal Home Program funds from
Fund 13 SC 955, Request 125708, in
the amount of $4,580,000 for other
expenses are hereby appropriated
for the operation of the Low Interest
Loan
and
Grant
Programs,
including all related services. The
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs
include
Repair-A-Home
(RAH), Corrective Action Grant,
Afford-A-Home (AAH), Senior Home
Owners
Assistance
Program
(SHAP), Paint Refund Program,
Housewarming, Furnace Repair, and
Home Maintenance Assistance Program (HMAP).
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various non-profit agencies,
rehabilitation
service
providers, tenants, homeowners, and
entities providing services necessary to process loans and grants to
implement the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Programs in the City of
Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
under said programs and to utilize
said repayments, and other program
income in a revolving fund for additional expenditures under these programs and administrative expenses,
which
repayments
and
program
income are hereby appropriated for
those purposes.
Section 4. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes,
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of loans made under this program.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into forbearance
agreements with any recipient of a
validly existing loan administered
by the City, and to charge and
accept fees to cover costs incurred
in the preparation of loan documents, closing, and servicing costs.

June 19, 2002
Such fees shall be deposited into
Fund No. 14 and are hereby appropriated for the purposes of the Low
Interest Loan and Grant Program.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1074-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
employ one or more auditors or one
or more firms of auditors to provide
an audit of cable franchise tax payments.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
employ one or more auditors or one
or more firms of auditors for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to provide an audit
of cable franchise tax payments,
financial analysis and other related
services.
The selection of said consultant or
consultants for such services shall
be made by the Board of Control
upon the nomination of the Director
of Finance from a list of qualified
consultants
available
for
such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Finance for the purpose of compiling such a list. The
compensation to be paid for such
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, and approved and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract or contracts shall be paid
out of any funds recovered because
they were identified by the auditors as funds that were due to the
City.
Section 3. The agreement shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such additional terms
and conditions as are necessary to
protect the public interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1100-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health
to apply for and accept a grant
from the Ohio Minority Health Commission for the Just Chillin’ Club
Grant; and authorizing the Director
to enter into contract with one or
more entities to implement this
grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the approximate amount of $100,000
and any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from the Ohio Minority Health Commission, to conduct the Just Chillin’
Club Grant, for the purposes set
forth in the summary and according
thereto; that the Director of Public
Health is hereby authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the summary for said grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
said grant, File No. 1100-02-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to enter into contract with one or
more entities for the implementation
of the grant as described in the summary contained in the file, payable
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1210-02.
By
Council
Members
Brady,
Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract without competitive bidding with Carrier Corporation for
the purchase of labor and materials
necessary to repair the HVAC system at the First District Police Station.
Whereas, the Acting Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
has recommended that, based on
considerations of cost, quality, and
delivery date, the City should contract with Carrier Corporation to
provide the necessary labor and
materials to repair the non-functioning HVAC system at the First
District Police Station; and

1431

71
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to make a written contract with said Carrier Corporation, for the necessary labor
and materials to repair the HVAC
system at the First District Police
Station, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
for a gross price for the Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties,
for an estimated cost of $55,000.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 20 SF 320,
Request No. 113815.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1211-02.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Alta House for Senior
Social Support and Youth Programs
over a two-year period through the
use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Alta House for Senior Social
Support and Youth Programs over a
two-year period, for the public purpose of providing social support and
youth services to senior citizens and
youth residing in the City of Cleveland through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $82,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

The City Record

72

June 19, 2002

Ord. No. 1212-02.
By Council Members Cintron and Gordon.
An emergency ordinance to amend the Title, Sections 1 and 3, Add new Sections 4 and 5, and Renumber the
remaining Sections accordingly, to Ordinance No. 1144-02, passed June 3, 2002, relating to an Encroachment Permit for a District Banner System to MetroHealth System to hang 40-banners which will encroach into the rightof-way of West 25th St. & Scranton Rd.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That that the Title, and Sections 1 and 3 are to be amended, and new Sections 4 and 5 are to be
added, and the remaining Sections are to be renumbered accordingly to Ordinance No. 1144-02, passed June 3, 2002,
is hereby amended to read respectively as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit for MetroHealth System
to hang 39-banners and create a District Banner System which will encroach into the public right-of-way of West
25th Street and Scranton Road.
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service for the MetroHealth System, 2500 MetroHealth Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44109-1998, its successors and assigns, to construct, use and
maintain a District Banner System using 39-banners for the purpose of public interest and location indentification,
to be attached to Cleveland Public Power (“C.P.P.”) utility poles (by separate permission) and which banners will
encroach into the public right-of-way of West 25th Street and Scranton Road at the locations described as follows:
LOCATION:

POLE #:

POLE OWNER:

WEST 25TH ST. (WEST SIDE):
2nd Pole N. of Daisy
2nd Pole S. of Marvin
2nd Pole N. of Marvin
3RD Pole N. of Marvin
NW Corner of Woodbridge
NW Corner of Trowbridge
3rd Pole N. of Trowbridge
2nd Pole S. of Sackett
1st Pole N. of Sackett
5th Pole S. of Meyer
3rd Pole S. of Meyer
NW Corner of Meyer
4th Pole N. of Meyer
2nd Pole N. of Holmden
1st Pole N. of Althen
SW Corner of Blatt
3rd Pole S. of Clark

AOM 41-119
AOM 41-117
AOM 441-115
40797
40796
AOM 41-108
AOM 41-106
AOM 41-102
AOM 41-107
AOM 37-105
AOM 37-103
AOM 37-100
(AOM 37-97)
AOM 37-94
AOM 18-56
AOM 18-53
No Tag

C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.

WEST 25TH ST. (EAST SIDE):
Opp. I-71 Ramp

No Tag

C.P.P.

WEST 25TH ST. (EAST SIDE):
2nd Pole S. of Englindale
1st Pole N. of Sackett
4th Pole N. of Sackett
1st Pole S. of Meyer
2nd Pole N. of Meyer
1st Pole N. of Holmden
1st Pole N. of Althen
SE Corner Prame
2nd Pole S. of Kinkel
2nd Pole N. of Kinkel
SE Corner of Clark

AOM 41-123
(AOM 37-109)
AOM 37-112
AOM 37-116
AOM 37-118
AOM 37-a22
AOM 18-57
AOM 18-59
AOM 18-61
AOM 18-63
AOM 18-66

C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.

SOUTHPOINT DRIVE (SOUTH SIDE)
2nd Pole W. of Scranton

40792

C.P.P.

SCRANTON ROAD (WEST SIDE)
2nd Pole N. of Althen

42832

C.P.P.

SCRANTON ROAD (EAST SIDE)
2nd Pole S. of Eglindale
NE Corner of Valentine
2nd Pole S. of Clover
2nd Pole S. of Brainard
S.E. Corner of Holmden
S.E. Corner of Buhrer
S.E. Corner Rowley
3rd Pole N. of Rowley

AO 41-37
40681
AOM 37-59
4060
42813
42826
AOM 37-86
AOM 37-87

C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.
C.P.P.

Section 3. That said banners will be placed within the public right-of-way as aforesaid in Section 1, and will be
constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That all other required permits, including a Building Permit, shall be obtained before said banners are hung.
Section 4. That the Permit herein authorized shall reserve right of entry to the City of Cleveland, and that said
Permit shall require the Permittee to provide Commercial General Liability Insurance, including Completed Operations Coverage, and that Permittee shall maintain the permitted encroachment area, and that the Permittee shall
pay any applicable taxes and assessments due and/or owing on the permitted encroachment area.
Section 5. That Administrative Guidelines for all Banner Systems must be followed as approved by the City Planning Commission’s Departments which include the Mayor’s Streetscape Committee and the Design Review Committee.
Section 6. That the Title, and Sections 1 and 3, of Ordinance No. 1144-02, passed June 3, 2002, is hereby repealed.
Section 7. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

1432

June 19, 2002
Ord. No. 1213-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of renovating
space in the Convention Center to
relocate
City
Council
Archives;
authorizing the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement; authorizing said director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement; and authorizing the
purchase by contract of furniture,
supplies, equipment and moving services necessary to implement the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of renovating space in the Convention Center to relocate City
Council Archives, for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, by contract duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for a gross price for
the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into con-

The City Record
tract for the making of the above
public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement provided however, that
each separate trade and each distinct
component
part
of
said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of said director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of said improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to employ by contract one or more consultants or one
or more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to design the public
improvement authorized above.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling such a list.

73
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to make a written contract in accordance with the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or
all of the following items: furniture,
supplies, equipment and moving services necessary to implement the
improvement, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Section 5. That the cost of said
public improvement, services and
purchases authorized herein shall be
paid from Fund No. 20 SF 340,
Request No. 115129.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1214-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 4 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 4 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 4. Employees of Council — Salary
That the Clerk of Council, with the approval of the President of Council, shall fix the salary of the employees
of Council within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Administrative Assistant..........................................................
Assistant Legislative Committee Clerk..............................
Chief City Archivist...................................................................
Chief of Consumer Affairs......................................................
Chief Deputy Clerk ..................................................................
Chief Legislative Secretary....................................................
Clerk’s Deputy Assistant.........................................................
Clerk’s Assistant.........................................................................
Council Receptionist..................................................................
Deputy Assistant – Finance...................................................
Deputy City Archivist...............................................................
Deputy Clerk................................................................................
Deputy Clerk – Finance...........................................................
Director of Communications...................................................
Director of Development – Council.....................................
Executive Assistant – Administration................................
Executive Assistant – Councilmembers.............................
Executive Assistant – Finance..............................................
Executive Assistant to the Clerk of Council..................
Executive Transition Coordinator........................................
First Assistant Clerk.................................................................
Fiscal Manager............................................................................
Fiscal Officer................................................................................
Fiscal Secretary...........................................................................
Information and Technology Administrator.....................
Information Systems Manager...............................................

1433

Minimum

Maximum

$21,112.14
$14,630.00
$18,630.00
$21,851.06
$21,851.06
$21,851.06
$21,851.06
$
18.72
$18,630.00
$55,000.00
$14,630.00
$21,112.14
$21,112.14
$24,974.46
$75,000.00
$24,974.46
$
7.16
$24,974.46
$24,974.46
$41,416.04
$24,975.91
$21,112.14
$
25.85
$24,975.91
$21,851.06
$21,851.06

$70,233.38
$52,186.71
$70,233.38
$77,256.73
$70,233.38
$70,233.38
$70,233.38
$
22.05
$42,140.03
$75,000.00
$65,233.00
$70,233.38
$70,233.38
$79,326.73
$90,000.00
$84,280.07
$
14.51
$84,280.07
$84,280.07
$89,455.07
$70,233.38
$70,233.38
$
43.27
$66,588.26
$76,692.03
$84,280.07

The City Record

74
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.

Legislative Assistants...............................................................
Legislative Assistant/Administrative Secretary ...........
Legislative Committee Clerk..................................................
Legislative Secretary.................................................................
Office Manager............................................................................
Payroll Manger............................................................................
Personnel Administrator – Council......................................
Public Relations Manager.......................................................
Research Assistant.....................................................................
Research Director.......................................................................
Sergeant-at-Arms..........................................................................
Special Counsel............................................................................

June 19, 2002
$18,630.00
$18,630.00
$18,630.00
$18,630.00
$30,000.00
$21,112.14
$21,112.14
$21,851.06
$21,851.06
$21,851.06
$13,304.30
$41,416.04

$56,186.71
$66,588.26
$56,186.71
$56,186.71
$70,000.00
$70,233.38
$70,233.38
$84,288.07
$84,280.07
$84,280.07
$38,634.90
$75,000.00

Section 2. That existing Section 4 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1215-02.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency ordinance amending the Title and Section 2 of Ordinance 2102-01, passed November 19,
2001 as it relates to the renovation
of the Fries and Schuele Building
through the use of Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 2102-01 passed November
19, 2001 is hereby amended to read
respectively as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $100,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That the Section 2 of
Ordinance 2102-01, passed November
19, 2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1216-02.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 214-01
passed December 10, 2001, relating
to cruelty to animals.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 4 of Ordinance No. 214-02 passed December
10, 2001 is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 4. That Section 603.032 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by this
ordinance, shall expire and be of no
futher force and effect one year
after the date of passage of this
ordinance.
Section 2. That existing Section 4
of
Ordinance
No.
214-01
passed
December
10,
2001
is
hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1217-02.
By Council Members Zone, Brady
and Reed.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 471.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1163-95,
passed June 19, 1995, relating to use
of highway for soliciting; riding in
cargo storage area, on tailgate or on
outside of vehicle; and to supplement said ordinances by enacting
new Section 471.061, relating to prohibiting persons from repeatedly
stopping, beckoning to, or attempting to stop vehicular traffic by hailing, waving arms or making other
bodily gestures.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 471.06 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleve-

1434

land, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1163-95, passed June
19, 1995, is amended to read as follows:
Section 471.06 Use of Highway for
Soliciting; Riding in Cargo Storage
Area, on Tailgate or on Outside of
Vehicle
(a) No person while on a roadway
outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(b) No person shall stand on a
highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or contributions from the occupant of any
vehicle.
(c) Except in case of emergency
or in the case of licensed vendors,
no person shall stand on a street or
highway, or on any other portion of
the right-of-way, including the berm,
shoulder, treelawn, and sidewalk,
and transfer any item, object, or
package or currency or anything of
value to or from motorists or passengers of any vehicle.
(d) Except in case of emergency
or in the case of licensed vendors,
no person who is the driver or occupant of a vehicle shall transfer or
receive any item, object, or package
or currency or anything of value to
or from any person standing on a
street or highway, or on any other
portion of the right-of-way, including the berm, shoulder, treelawn,
and sidewalk.
(e) Except in case of emergency,
no person shall stand on a street or
highway, or on any other portion of
the right-of-way, including the berm,
treelawn shoulder, and sidewalk,
and repeatedly stop, beckon to, or
attempt to stop vehicular traffic by
hailing, waving arms or making
other bodily gestures.
(f) No person shall hang onto, or
ride on the outside of any motor
vehicle, streetcar, or trackless trolley while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under the
authority of a public agency.
(g) No operator shall knowingly
permit any person to hang onto, or
ride on the outside of any motor

June 19, 2002
vehicle, streetcar, or trackless trolley while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance of construction under the
authority of a public agency.
(h) No driver of a truck, trailer,
or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any
person
who
has
not
attained the age of sixteen years
to
ride
in
the
unenclosed
or
unroofed cargo storage area of his
vehicle if the vehicle is traveling
faster than twenty-five miles per
hour, unless either of the following
applies:
(1) the cargo storage area of the
vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a
seat safety belt that is in compliance with federal standards for an
occupant
restraining
device
as
defined in division (A)(2) of RC
4513.263, the seat and seat safety
belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled,
and the person riding in the cargo
storage area is in the seat and is
wearing the seat safety belt;
(2) An emergency exists that
threatens the life of the driver or
the person being transported in the
cargo storage area of the truck,
trailer, or semitrailer.
(i) No driver of a truck, trailer, or
semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing
specialized highway or street maintenance
or
construction
under
authority of a public agency, to ride
in the cargo storage area or on a
tailgate of his vehicle while the tailgate is unlatched.
(j) No person shall leave or enter
a vehicle that is in motion except in
an emergency necessitating such
action.
(k) As used in this section,
“street” or “highway” have the same
meaning as in division (BB) of RC
Section 4511.01.
(l) Whoever violates divisions
(b), (c), (d) or (e) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree on the first offense, a
misdemeanor of the third degree on
the second offense, and a misdemeanor of the first degree on the
third and each subsequent offense.
Whoever violates any other division
of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on the first offense; a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree
on a second offense; and a misdemeanor of the third degree on the
third and each subsequent offense.
(RC 4511.51)
Section 2. That Section 471.06 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1163-95, passed June
19, 1995, is repealed.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 471.061 to read as follows:
Section
471.061
To
Repeatedly
Stop, Hail Down, or Beckon to Vehicles Prohibited; Exceptions; Penalties
(a) No person shall repeatedly
stop, beckon to, or attempt to stop
vehicles by hailing, waving arms, or
making other bodily gestures, in or
about any public place, or any place

The City Record
open to the public, or any private
place visible from a public place, in
combination with the following conduct:
To repeatedly leave the place in a
vehicle that the person has stopped,
hailed down or beckoned to, and to
return a short time later, in less
than an hour, to the same or another public place, or any place open to
the public, or any private place visible from a public place, to repeat
the same behaviors.
(b) No person shall repeatedly
stop, beckon to, or attempt to stop
vehicles by hailing, waving arms, or
making other bodily gestures, by
waving arms, or making other bodily gestures, in or about any public
place, or any place open to the public, or any private place visible from
a public place, in combination with
the following conduct:
(1) To transfer small objects or
packages in exchange for currency
or any other thing of value; or
(2) To carry small objects or
packages in the mouth and to transfer such objects or packages to
another person for currency or any
other thing of value, or to swallow
or attempt to swallow the objects or
packages if approached by a lawenforcement officer.
(c) This section does not apply to
any person who stops, beckons to, or
attempts to stop vehicles
due to
emergency, or to warn drivers of
danger, or to engage transportation
for hire.
(d) The requisite culpability or
intent for the offenses defined in
this section is knowingly. As used
in this section, “knowingly” has the
same meaning as in Section 601.07.
(e) Whoever violates divisions (a)
or (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree
on the first offense, and a misdemeanor of the first degree on each
subsequent offense.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1218-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into contract with West Group or
its designee for professional services necessary to update, print
and bind the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances,
including
recodification of the Traffic and General
Offenses Codes as amended by the
Ohio General Assembly and providing alternative formats and internet accessibility; and to compile,
verify, edit, index, compose, print
and package a cumulative supplement, including alternative formats
and internet accessibility, for a
period of one year, with three oneyear options to renew all or part of
these services.

1435

75
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into one or
more contracts with West Group or
its designee for professional services necessary to update, print and
bind the Cleveland Codified Ordinances, including updating the Traffic and General Offenses Codes to
conform to amendments passed by
the Ohio General Assembly and providing alternative formats and internet accessibility; and to compile,
verify, edit, index, compose, print
and package a cumulative supplement, including alternative formats
and internet accessibility, for a period of one year commencing upon
execution of a contract, with three
options exercisable by the Clerk of
Council, to renew all or any portion
of these services for additional oneyear periods, and cancellable upon
thirty days written notice by said
Clerk of Council.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1219-02.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Hough Community
Council Inc. for the Hough Enrichment and Lifeline Program through
the use of Ward 7 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Hough Community Council
Inc. for the Hough Enrichment and
Lifeline Program, for the public
purpose of providing educational
workshops on social empowerment
for Cleveland residents through the
use of Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

76
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1220-02.
By Council Members Jackson and
Sweeney (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into contract without competitive bidding with Baumann Enterprises for the purchase of labor and
materials necessary to board up the
exterior of the building commonly
known as the old Warner and
Swasey Building, located at 5601
Carnegie Avenue.
Whereas, the Acting Director of
Public Service has recommended
that, based on considerations of
cost, quality, safety, security and
delivery date, the City should contract with Baumann Enterprises to
provide the necessary labor and
materials to board up the exterior of
the building commonly known as
the old Warner and Swasey Building, located at 5601 Carnegie Avenue; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written contract with
said Baumann Enterprises, for the
necessary labor and materials to
board up the exterior of the building commonly known as the old
Warner and Swasey Building, located at 5601 Carnegie Avenue, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies for gross
price for the Department of Public
Service, for an estimated cost of
$50,000.00.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 300 and
20 SF 340, Request No. 113813.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1221-02.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Properties, and Recreation to enter into an
agreement with the Kenneth L.
Johnson Recreation Center for a

The City Record
Youth Football and Recreation Program through the use of Ward 4
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Properties, and Recreation
is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Kenneth L.
Johnson Recreation Center for a
Youth Football and Recreation Program, for the public purpose of providing sporting and recreational
activities for youth that reside in
the City of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 4 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $15,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1222-02.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 2 of Ordinance 488-02,
passed March 18, 2002 as it relates
to the Cleveland Community Building Initiative Cutting Edge Program
through the use of Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance 488-02, passed March 18, 2002
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $36,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance 488-02, passed March 18, 2002
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

1436

June 19, 2002
Ord. No. 1223-02.
By Council Member Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development
to
enter
into
an
agreement with Saltzman H-Realty
Co. Ltd. for the Dave’s Slavic Village Market project over a threeyear period through the use of
Ward
12
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Saltzman H-Realty Co. Ltd.
for the Dave’s Slavic Village Market project over a three-year period for the public purpose of creating and retaining jobs for Cleveland residents through the use of
Ward
12
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $150,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1224-02.
By Council Member Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development
to
enter
into
an
agreement with the Famicos Foundation, who will act as an agent
for the City of Cleveland in the
implementation a the Ward 8 Home
Repair Program through the use of
Ward
8
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Famicos Foundation, who
will act as an agent for the City of
Cleveland in the implementation of
the Ward 8 Home Repair Program,
for the public purpose of providing
financial assistance for home repair
to Cleveland residents through the

June 19, 2002
use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $114,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

Ord. No. 1225-02.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 2 of Ordinance 2377-01,
passed December 3, 2001 as it pertains to supporting the Cleveland
Public Theatre’s Cleveland Act Now
and Student Enrichment Program
through the use of Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance 2377-01, passed December 3,
2001 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance 2377-01, passed December 3,
2001 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 10, 2002.
Effective June 14, 2002.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Thursday, June 13, 2002
Joint Committee Meeting
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development: — Present: Gordon, Chair;
Cimperman, Vice Chair; Cintron,
Zone, Lewis, Jones, Coats. Excused:
Reed, Scott.

The City Record

77

Employment, Affirmative Action
& Training:
— Present:
Lewis,
Chairman; Conwell, Vice Chair; Cintron,
Polensek,
Coats,
Excused:
Reed, Johnson.

Community & Economic Development Committee: — Present: Gordon, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;
Reed, Scott, Cintron, Zone, Lewis,
Jones, Coats.

Monday, June 17, 2002
Joint Committee Meetings:
9:00 a.m.

Finance Committee: — Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.

Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: — Present: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Rybka, Sweeney, Jones.
Excused: Dolan.
Public Utilities Committee:
—
Present:
Coats, Chair; O’Malley,
Vice Chair; Brady, Zone, Cintron,
Westbrook,
Polensek,
Sweeney,
Jones.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee: — Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Rybka, Vice Chair; O’Malley, Conwell, Scott, Lewis, Westbrook.
Finance Committee: — Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.
— ——
Public Service Committee: — Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Jones, Vice
Chair; Polensek, White, O’Malley,
Zone, Cimperman, Brady, Johnson.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee: — Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Rybka, Vice Chair; O’Malley, Conwell, Scott, Lewis, Westbrook.
Finance Committee: — Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.
— ——
Employment, Affirmative Action
& Training Committee: — Present:
Lewis, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Reed, Cintron, Johnson, Polensek,
Coats.

— ——
Aviation & Transportation Committee:
— Present:
Westbrook,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Britt,
Rybka, Gordon, Reed.
Excused:
Dolan.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee: — Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Rybka, Vice Chair; O’Malley, Conwell, Scott, Lewis, Westbrook.
Finance Committee: — Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.
— ——
Public Safety Committee: — Present: Reed, Chair; Britt, Vice Chair;
Coats, Brady, Jones, Zone, White,
Cimperman, Conwell.
Employment, Affirmative Action
& Training Committee: — Present:
Lewis, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Reed, Cintron, Johnson, Polensek,
Coats.
Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: — Present: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Rybka, Sweeney, Jones.
Excused: Dolan.
Finance Committee: — Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.
— ——

Finance Committee: — Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.

Public Utilities Committee:
—
Present: Coats, Chair; O’Malley, Vice
Chair; Brady, Zone, Cintron, Westbrook, Polensek, Sweeney, Jones.

— ——

Finance Committee: — Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.

Community & Economic Development Committee: — Present: Gordon, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;
Reed, Scott, Cintron, Zone, Lewis,
Jones, Coats.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee: — Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Rybka, Vice Chair; O’Malley, Conwell, Scott, Lewis, Westbrook.

— ——
City Planning (Zoning) Committee: — Present: Cimperman, Chair;
Rybka, Vice Chair; O’Malley, Conwell, Scott, Lewis, Westbrook.

Finance Committee: — Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.

Finance Committee: — Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.

— ——

— ——

Health & Human Services Committee:
— Present:
Britt, Chair;
Zone, Vice Chair; Gordon, Scott, Conwell, Polensek, Cintron.

Finance Committee: — Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.

1437

The City Record

78

June 19, 2002

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments
Aging Department
Mt. Sinai Health Care Foundation Program — grant (O 787-02) . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program Community Development Block Grant funds (O 775-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Outreach Services Health Promotion and Socialization Program —
1514-01 — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1276-02) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1422
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
amend Ord. No.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381

Senior Outreach Services, Inc. — Senior Outreach Services Health Promotion
and Socialization Program — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1277-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381
Agreements
Advertising concession — operation — concession agreement — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 550-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Chagrin Highlands Ltd. — Master Development Agreement — second amendment — Chagrin
Highlands, Ltd. (O 137-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
CIJIS Phase III Enhancements — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 1071-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
Fingerprinting services — Federal Aviation Administration (O 1094-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
AIDS
AIDS related services — contracts — various agencies — Community Development and
Public Health (O 1198-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
AIDS-related services — contracts — various agencies — Public Health (O 1197-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Animals
Cruelty to animals — amend Ord. No. 214-01 (O 1216-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1434
Appropriations
Administrative expenses — Department of Community Development — Community Development
Block Grant funds (O 845-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Code Enforcement Program — administrative expenses — Community Development Block Grant
funds (O 848-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Housing Rehabilitation Programs; — administration — CDBG and Federal HOME Program funds
— professional consultants — Section 8 Housing Quality Standards (O 844-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Assessment Equalization Board
Catalpa Rd — Cleveland Rd — estimated assessments for improvement (O 1303-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Dillewood Rd. — Nottingham Rd. — Creekview DR — E. 177th St. — estimated assessments
for improvement (O 1300-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
W. 93rd St. — estimated assessments for improvement (O 1302-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Banners
African American Family Heritage Day Picnic — annual picnic (O 1296-02) . . . . . . . . .
McDonald’s Restaurant — Community Crimefair (O 1294-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MetroHealth System — District Banner System — amend Ord. No. 1144-02 (O 1212-02)
Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Catholic Church — annual festival (O 1306-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Wendelin’s Church — 9-banners — St. Wendelin’s Church 100th Anniversary

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1387
1387
1432
1389

(O 1280-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1384
Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation
Puritas, Ave., 14701 — grant agreement (O 1137-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Board of Control — Burke Lakefront Airport Division
ATM and depository services at airports — amend Contract #54309 — name change from
Firstar Bank to U.S. Bank National Association — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 354-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405

1438

June 19, 2002

The City Record

79

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
ATM and depository services at airports — amend Contract #54309 — name change from
Firstar Bank to U.S. Bank National Association — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 354-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Comprehensive Terminal Audit Project — contract per Ord. 2190-01 to Vocon Design, Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 352-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Precision Approach Path Indicator (PAPI) for Runway 5R-23L — contract per Ord. 643-2000
to Baker & Associates — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 353-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404

Board of Control — Environment Division
Atomic absorption spectrometer — per Ord. 536-02 — all bids rejected — Division of
Environment, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 360-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1406
Larvicide briquettes — per Ord. 537-02 — all bids rejected — Division of
Environment, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 357-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Fuel dispensing pump repair — contract per Ord. 2156-01 to NozzleNew, Inc. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 355-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Galion equipment parts and labor — contract per Ord. 368-01 to Columbus Equipment Co. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 356-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Recreation center improvements — contract per Ord. 1728-2000 to Dynatech Consulting
Engineers — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 359-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405

Board of Control — Police Division
DARE supplies — contract per Ord. 2156-01 to Lee Wayne Corporation — Division of Police,
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 358-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405

Board of Control — Port Control Department
ATM and depository services at airports — amend Contract #54309 — name change from
Firstar Bank to U.S. Bank National Association — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 354-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Comprehensive Terminal Audit Project — contract per Ord. 2190-01 to Vocon Design, Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 352-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Precision Approach Path Indicator (PAPI) for Runway 5R-23L — contract per Ord. 643-2000
to Baker & Associates — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 353-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Comprehensive Terminal Audit Project — contract per Ord. 2190-01 to Vocon Design, Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 352-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Precision Approach Path Indicator (PAPI) for Runway 5R-23L — contract per Ord. 643-2000
to Baker & Associates — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 353-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Recreation center improvements — contract per Ord. 1728-2000 to Dynatech Consulting
Engineers — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 359-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Security consulting services — approve subcontractors — BOC Res. 285-02 — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 349-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Board of Control — Public Health Department
Atomic absorption spectrometer — per Ord. 536-02 — all bids rejected — Division of
Environment, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 360-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1406
Larvicide briquettes — per Ord. 537-02 — all bids rejected — Division of
Environment, Dept. of Public Health (BOC Res. 357-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405

1439

The City Record

80

June 19, 2002

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Water main reinsulation — innerbelt bridges — contract per Ord. 1155-01 to Utilicon
Corporation — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 350-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Board of Control — Public Safety Department
DARE supplies — contract per Ord. 2156-01 to Lee Wayne Corporation — Division of Police,
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 358-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Board of Control — Public Service Department
Fuel dispensing pump repair — contract per Ord. 2156-01 to NozzleNew, Inc. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 355-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Galion equipment parts and labor — contract per Ord. 368-01 to Columbus Equipment Co. Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 356-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Quick lime — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Huron Lime Company — Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 351-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security consulting services — approve subcontractors — BOC Res. 285-02 — Dept. of
Utilities (BOC Res. 349-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water main reinsulation — innerbelt bridges — contract per Ord. 1155-01 to Utilicon
Corporation — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 350-02). . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Public
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
ATM and depository services at airports — amend Contract #54309 — name change from
Firstar Bank to U.S. Bank National Association — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 354-02).
DARE supplies — contract per Ord. 2156-01 to Lee Wayne Corporation — Division of Police,
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 358-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fuel dispensing pump repair — contract per Ord. 2156-01 to NozzleNew, Inc. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 355-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Galion equipment parts and labor — contract per Ord. 368-01 to Columbus Equipment Co. Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 356-02) . . . . . . . .
Quick lime — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Huron Lime Company — Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 351-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404

Board of Control — Water Division
Quick lime — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Huron Lime Company — Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 351-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Water main reinsulation — innerbelt bridges — contract per Ord. 1155-01 to Utilicon
Corporation — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 350-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Board of Education
Meeting Agenda — Board of Education Cleveland Municipal School District
(F 1233-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs — 2002-2003 school year — Parks,
Recreation and Properties and Finance (O 1264-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1367
Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Broadway Avenue, 8514, (Ward 2) – Julius C. Fossa, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
06/17/02 (Cal. 02-117) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
Broadway Avenue, 9901, (Ward 2) – John P. Papouras, owner, and Sprint/North Coast
Communications, tenant, c/o Rob Armstrong, agent — appeal postponed to 07/01/02 on
06/17/02 (Cal. 02-118) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
Buckeye Road, 12417-12419, (Ward 8) – Guy L. Moore, owner — appeal postponed to 07/01/02
on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-123) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
Clinton Avenue, 3601, (Ward 13) – Domestic Violence Center, owners, c/o Paula Koos, agent
— appeal heard on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-120). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
Cypress Avenue, 3914, (Ward 16) – Theodore Harrah, owner — appeal postponed to 07/08/02
on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-71) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
Dorver Drive, 8100, (Ward 12) – Dave J. Rakoczy, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-115) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
East 66th Street, 1605, (Ward 7) – Catholic Charities Facilities Corporation, owner, and
Maryellen Staab, agent — appeal granted and adopted on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-49) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407

1440

June 19, 2002

The City Record

81

East 66th Street, 1607, (Ward 7) – Catholic Charities Facilities Corporation, owner, and
Maryellen Staab, agent — appeal granted and adopted on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-50) . . . . . . . . . .
East 66th Street, 1609, (Ward 7) – Catholic Charities Facilities Corporation, owner, and
Maryellen Staab, agent — appeal granted and adopted on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-51) . . . . . . . . . .
East 66th Street, 1611, (Ward 7) – Catholic Charities Facilities Corporation, owner, and
Maryellen Staab, agent — appeal granted and adopted on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-52) . . . . . . . . . .
East 66th Street, 1613, (Ward 7) – Catholic Charities Facilities Corporation, owner, and
Maryellen Staab, agent — appeal granted and adopted on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-53) . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 222-248, (Ward 13) – Euclid LLC, owners, c/o John Monroe, agent — appeal
heard on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-126) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jenne Avenue, 14113-14115, (Ward 10) – Thomas Branch, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-56) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 2510, (Ward 13) – Zapis Communications, owner, c/o Joe Evans, agent appeal heard on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-119) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tacoma Avenue, 10630, (Ward 8) – Leatrice Emeruwa, owner — appeal dismissed on 06/17/02
(Cal. 02-122) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1936-48, (Ward 13) – Fries and Schuele LLC, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-125) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 38th Street, 1836-38, (Ward 13) – James Paul Curley, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-111) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Blvd., 3623, (Ward 18) – Randy J. Cunningham, owner — appeal heard on 06/17/02
(Cal. 02-124) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Boulevard, 3321, (Ward 18) – Richard Dempsey, owner — appeal heard on 06/17/02
(Cal. 02-121) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodbine Avenue, 3300, (Ward 13) – Jack Kline and Ruth Boland, owners — appeal granted
and adopted on 06/17/02 (Cal. 02-113). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 105th Street, 1082, (Ward 8) – C&I Construction, owners — appeal to be heard
on 07/01/02 (Cal. 02-114) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Herman Avenue, 5303-5317, (Ward 17) – City Life Development, owners c/o Kurt Weaver,
agent — appeal to be heard on 07/01/02 (Cal. 02-133) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Herman Avenue, 5409-5423, (Ward 17) – City Life Development, owners c/o Kurt Weaver,
agent — appeal to be heard on 07/01/02 (Cal. 02-133) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Literary Road, 705-707, (Ward 13) – Joseph and Brenda Lewandowski, owners c/o Father
Richard Rasch — appeal to be heard on 07/01/02 (Cal. 02-141) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 11920, (Ward 19) – Mervyn J. Barber, owner c/o Richard H. Lazard, manager
— appeal to be heard on 07/01/02 (Cal. 02-137) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 14500, (Ward 20) – Paul Haddad, owner, and Whitney Miller, tenant
— appeal to be heard on 07/01/02 (Cal. 02-140) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1867-73, (Ward 14) – Paul Cirjak, owner — appeal to be heard on
07/01/02 (Cal. 02-136) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 69th Street, 1227, (Ward 17) – Noalsco Housing Corporation, owners c/o Father
Richard Rasch — appeal to be heard on 07/01/02 (Cal. 02-161) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1406
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407

Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Cleveland
Concrete curb and sidewalk work — agreement — use of its new football and baseball
facility (O 1295-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Recreational Programs and Activities — Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1293-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Bridges
Broadway Avenue Bridge — replace surface (O 1261-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1365
Buckeye Area Development Corporation
Buckeye Rd., 11801-11 — loan and grant agreement (O 934-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Rd., 11801-11 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — ten year sixty percent abatement
(O 935-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 111th St. & Forest Ave. & Soike Ave. — Buckeye Area Development Corporation
(O 1268-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scattered sites — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 4 & 6) (O 1269-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1373
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1374

Building and Housing Division
Building and Housing Department — new Sects 138.01 to 138.07 — amend Sects 137.02 and
3103.01 — repeal Sects 137.03, 137.04, 137.16, and 137.161 — transfer
$2,770,800.00 — amend Ord. No. 469-02 (O 1266-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1368

1441

The City Record

82

June 19, 2002

Burke Lakefront Airport
Collection of landing fees by fixed base operators — new Section 571.851
(O 2092-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Information Technology Systems Project — consultants — Cleveland Hopkins & Burke
Lakefront Airports — Port Control Dept. (O 1492-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Case Western Reserve University
E. 105 St. & Hough Ave. — Modification of Deed Restriction — Cleveland Foundation —
Parks, Recreation & Properties Dept. (O 2140-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
City Council
Archives — relocate — Convention Center — public improvement (O 1213-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1433
Educational workshop — grant — members of Cleveland City Council — Cleveland
Foundation (O 1289-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1386
City Hall
Rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing — amend Ord. No. 835-02 (O 1298-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
City of Brook Park
Cuyahoga Soil and Water District — Conservation Easement Agreement —Department of Port
Control (O 530-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
City of Cleveland Bids
Apex 25 ft. ridge hull inflatable boat, Rhino Tandem axel trailer for use by the harbor
unit — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per Ord. 497-01 — bid due
July 10, 2002(advertised 6/19/2002 and 6/26/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Atomic absorption spectrometer for blood lead analysis — Department of Public Health —
Division of Environment — per Ord. 536-02 — bid due July 10, 2002
(advertised 6/19/2002 and 6/26/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Catch basin and manhole construction and repair — Department of Public Utilities Division of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 886-02 — bid due June 27,
2002(advertised 6/12/2002 and 6/19/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Avenue rehabilitation (E. 22nd St. to E. 55th St.) — Department of Public Service —
Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord. 1032-01 — bid due June
27, 2002(advertised 6/12/2002 and 6/19/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debris disposal at landfills — Department of Public Utilities — per Ord. 1742-01 — bid
due July 10, 2002(advertised 6/12/2002 and 6/19/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Internal pipeline testing system — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water per Ord. 2353-01 — bid due July 10, 2002(advertised 6/12/2002 and 6/19/2002) . . . . . . . . . . .
Larvicide briquettes — Department of Public Health — Division of Environment — per Ord.
537-02 — bid due June 27, 2002(advertised 6/19/2002 and 6/26/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lift truck, 12,000 pounds capacity — Department of Public Service — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1264-01 — bid due July 10, 2002
(advertised 6/19/2002 and 6/26/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Messenger services — Department of Finance — per Ord. 341-02 — bid due June 28,
2002(advertised 6/12/2002 and 6/19/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Natural gas — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per Ord. 284-01 — bid
due July 11, 2002(advertised 6/19/2002 and 6/26/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Outdoor light program (materials) — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 822-2000 — bid due July 3, 2002
(advertised 6/12/2002 and 6/19/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pump station maintenance — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water Pollution
Control — per Ord. 346-02 — bid due June 26, 2002
(advertised 6/12/2002 and 6/19/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solid waste direct haul (Contract “Contingency”) — Department of Public Service Division of Waste Collection and Disposal — per Ord. 534-02 — bid due June 28,
2002(advertised 6/12/2002 and 6/19/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solid waste transfer and disposal (Contract “W”) — Department of Public Service Division of Waste Collection and Disposal — per Ord. 479-02 — bid due June 28,
2002(advertised 6/12/2002 and 6/19/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing supplies-2003 — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per
Ord. 135-06 — bid due July 11, 2002 (advertised 6/19/2002 and 6/26/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Villas of Woodhaven (Phase 1) — Department of Public Service — Division of Engineering
and Construction — per Ord. 224-02 — bid due June 27, 2002
(advertised 6/12/2002 and 6/19/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1442

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408

June 19, 2002

The City Record

83

City Planning Commission
Alexander Graham Bell Elementary School playground — public improvement — contract
(O 1815-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
E. 105 St. & Hough Ave. — Modification of Deed Restriction — Case Western Reserve Univ.
— Cleveland Foundation — Parks, Recreation & Properties Dept. (O 2140-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Grayton Rd (west) & Interstate 480 (south) — change zoning height district
(O 1005-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Lorain Ave., north and south — change zoning (O 417-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Overlook Ave. west side, Carlton Rd. north — change zoning (O 943-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
W. 67th St. & Father Caruso DR. (s.e. corner) — change the zoning (O 1275-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
W. 84th St. & Franklin Ave. (N.W. corner) — change the zoning (O 1274-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Clerk of Council
Codified Ordinances — update, print and bind — West Group (O 1218-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Compensation — amend Ord. No. 469-02 (O 1214-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1433

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
Annual Report, 2001 — Medical Miracles (F 1231-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364

Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI)
Lakeshore — E. 72nd St. — easement rights — granting (O 1257-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364

Cleveland Foundation
E. 105 St. & Hough Ave. — Modification of Deed Restriction — Case Western Reserve Univ.
— Cleveland Foundation — Parks, Recreation & Properties Dept. (O 2140-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Educational workshop — grant — members of Cleveland City Council (O 1289-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1386

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Advertising concession — operation — concession agreement (O 550-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Air Canada — City Contract No. 55337 — amendment (O 1091-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Building automation system — purchase — Siemens Building Technologies, Inc.
(O 761-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Expansion Program — public improvement (O 471-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Coil casing section — fluid cooler — replace (O 429-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Contract No. 31083 — amendment — American Airlines, Inc. — deletion of certain space
(O 979-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Electrical vaults 5 and 7 — upgrades (O 1260-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1365
Information Technology Systems Project — consultants — Cleveland Hopkins & Burke
Lakefront Airports — Port Control Dept. (O 1492-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Mezzanine — install — Central Receiving (O 1010-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Sanitary line and collection berm — construction — Centralized Deicing Facility, Phase
Ia project (O 1095-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Towing services — purchase — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1259-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1365
Tug Road — modifications in Contract No. 57869 — Perk Company, Inc. (O 982-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
US Airways, Inc. — City Contract No. 28672 — amendment (O 1090-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396

Cleveland Housing Network
Community Development Block Grant float loan — construction of low income rental housing
(O 843-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Convert loans to grants — affordable housing — amend contracts — Community Development
Dept. (O 2411-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1410
Gallup and Nursery Avenues & East 66th and East 70th Street — Land Reutilization Program
(O 1267-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1373
Low income housing units — contracts (O 930-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427

Cleveland Municipal Court
CIJIS Phase III Enhancements — agreements (O 1071-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
Court Community Service Cleveland Work Crew Program — contract (O 977-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Criminal and civil filing system — 2003 — purchase (O 677-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1418
Oracle Corporation — contract — amend Ord. No. 1014-02 (O 1290-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1386

1443

The City Record

84

June 19, 2002

Cleveland Municipal School District
Alexander Graham Bell Elementary School playground — public improvement — contract
(O 1815-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390

Cleveland Public Power
Auto dialer system — purchase (O 1081-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Clean and test insulators — bushing and lighting arrestors (O 1075-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
Insurance coverage — fire and extended — various locations (O 1078-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
Message boards (3) — purchase (O 1080-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Mitel Networks Solutions, Inc. — contract — Mitel Communications equipment — Public
Utilities (O 1076-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
Trim trees — purchase (O 1079-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
Turbines (3) — emissions tests (O 586-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1418

Cleveland Public Schools
Reopen Aviation High School system — utilize the school solely for training and support
services — Urging — Cleveland Board of Education — Superintendent — mayor White
(R 826-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T

Cleveland Public Theater
Cleveland Act Now and Student Enrichment Program — amend Ord. No. 2377-01 — Ward 17
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1225-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437

Codified Ordinances
Advertising on City trucks — new Section 121.07 (O 482-95) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Building and Housing Department — new Sects 138.01 to 138.07 — amend Sects 137.02 and
3103.01 — repeal Sects 137.03, 137.04, 137.16, and 137.161 — transfer
$2,770,800.00 — amend Ord. No. 469-02 (O 1266-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1368
Codified Ordinances — update, print and bind — West Group (O 1218-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Collection of landing fees by fixed base operators — new Section 571.851
(O 2092-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Cruelty to animals — amend Ord. No. 214-01 (O 1216-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1434
Dog waste — new Section 603.041 (O 728-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1419
Drug-related activities — new Sec. 607.19 (O 925-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Employment of associate counsel — amend Section 125.04 (O 62-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Fees for use of the airport by various vehicle operators — new Section 571.88
(O 2091-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Gambling — amend Code Sections 611.01 and 611.02 — Public Safety Dept.
(O 184-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411
Golf course fees — amend Section 133.29 (O 540-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1415
Mobile basketball hoops — amend Section 411.04 (O 1263-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1366
Parking infraction fines — amend Code Section 459.11 — (O 1961-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Prostitution — new Section 619.11 (O 924-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Sections 680.01 and 680.05 newspaper dispensing devices (O 32-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Sewer and water line protection program — new Sections 535.22 and 525.23
(O 356-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Soliciting, riding in cargo storage area, on tailgate or on outside of vehicle (Highway)
— amend Section 471.06 — new Section 471.061 — hailing, waving arms or making
other bodily gestures — prohibition — stop vehicular traffic
(O 1217-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1434
Trucks — Loads dropping or leaking; removal required; tracking mud — amend Code Sec.
439.11 (O 2196-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1410

Communications
100 Black Men & Friends Summit 2002 — Office of Equal Opportunity
(F 1234-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Annual Report, 2001 — Medical Miracles — The Cleveland Clinic Foundation
(F 1231-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Board of Directors Meeting — Minutes — Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority
(F 1232-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Meeting Agenda — Board of Education Cleveland Municipal School District
(F 1233-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364

1444

June 19, 2002

The City Record

85

Community Development
Administrative expenses — Department of Community Development — Community Development
Block Grant funds (O 845-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
AIDS related services — contracts — various agencies — Community Development and
Public Health (O 1198-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Alexander Graham Bell Elementary School playground — public improvement — contract
(O 1815-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Alta House — Senior Social Support and Youth Programs — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 1211-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431
Bingham Building — acquisition and rehabilitation — amend the title and Sects. 1 & 2
of Ord. No. 1972-01 — Bingham Building Limited Partnership (O 777-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Boys and Girls Club of Cleveland — Recreational Programs and Activities — Ward
12 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1293-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Broadway Ave., 6966 — fire alarm system — Slavic Village Development — Ward 12
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 659-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Building and Housing Department — new Sects 138.01 to 138.07 — amend Sects 137.02 and
3103.01 — repeal Sects 137.03, 137.04, 137.16, and 137.161 — transfer
$2,770,800.00 — amend Ord. No. 469-02 (O 1266-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1368
Cedar and Central (between) — along E. 40th & E. 43rd Sts. — Land Reutilization Program
— Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 933-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Cedar Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
(O 1202-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Cityworks Program — contract — neighborhood-based street clubs, block clubs and other
community improvement groups (O 995-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Cleveland Action to Support Housing (CASH) — housing — loan programs — contracts
(O 931-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428
Cleveland Community Building Initiative — Cutting Edge Training Program — Ward
3 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1222-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Cleveland Housing Network — Community Development Block Grant float loan — construction
of low income rental housing (O 843-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Cleveland Housing Network — convert loans to grants — affordable housing — amend
contracts (O 2411-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1410
Cleveland Public Theater’s Cleveland Act Now and Student Enrichment Program — amend Ord.
No. 2377-01 — Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1225-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Code Enforcement Program — administrative expenses — Community Development Block Grant
funds (O 848-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Community garden program — non-profit agency (O 847-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Community Reinvestment Area — establish — amend Sec. 4a of Ord. No. 1776-A-90
(O 849-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426
Consumer Affairs — fair housing services — Community Development Block Grant funds
(O 776-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Demolition, removal or the boarding up — structures within the City of Cleveland. —
contracts (O 778-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
E. 102nd & 103rd St. — Land Reutilization Program — Glenville Development Corporation
(O 1271-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1376
E. 57th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
(O 932-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
E. 59th, 68th, 69th, 70th Sts. — Land Reutilization Program — Greater Cleveland Habitat
for Humanity, Inc. (O 780-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1421
E. 61st St., 2431 — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
(O 1201-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
E. 81st St., 1865-1871 — Land Reutilization Program — Eva Denise McCord
(O 1270-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1376
East 98th Street, 1132 and 1136 — Land Reutilization Program — Charles Hall and Brenda
J. Hall (O 1458-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan — appropriate property — Treatment Area
Block 3, Site B (O 412-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413
Famicos Foundation — Ward 8 Home Repair Program — Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1224-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Gallup and Nursery Avenues & East 66th and East 70th Street — Land Reutilization Program
— Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. (O 1267-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1373
Hough Community Council Inc. — Hough Enrichment and Lifeline Program — Ward
7 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1219-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Housing Rehabilitation Programs; — administration — CDBG and Federal HOME Program funds
— professional consultants — Section 8 Housing Quality Standards (O 844-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Housing Trust Fund Program — contracts — various housing development entities
(O 997-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Housing, commercial, industrial and real estate development activities — various
agencies (O 1118-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1398

1445

The City Record

86

June 19, 2002

IJN-1 Foundation — housing and counseling services for troubled youth — Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 661-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Lakeside Ave. north, W. 6th Street east, St. Clair Ave. south, & W. 9th St. west
— establishing a Community Reinvestment Area — amend Sec. 6 of Ord. No. 2831-86
(O 842-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Low income housing units — contracts — Cleveland Housing Network (O 930-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — Community Development Block Grant funds and
Federal Home funds (O 996-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1430
Lutheran Housing Corporation — Crime Watch and Tutoring Program — Ward 15, and
16 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1284-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
Lutheran Housing Corporation — Home Repair Program — Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1305-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
MetroHealth Medical Center — HIV/AIDs Outreach Program — Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 1286-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moore Faith Ministries — Performing Arts Education
Funds (O 1304-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northeast Ohio Coalition — Homeless for Community
Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1287-02) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
Program — Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Enrichment Work Training Program —
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385

Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation — Land Reutilization Program —
scattered sites (O 1265-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1367
Ohio Bicentennial Legacy Tree Planting Grant Program — grant — Ohio Dept. of Natural
Resources — agreement — Park Works (O 2372-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Project Clean Program — Community Development Block Grant funds — Parks, Recreation
and Properties (O 779-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Prospect Ave., 3606 — 2061 E. 36 St. — Land Reutilization Program — Abraham Realty,
Inc. (O 1008-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Quay 55 Limited Partnership — Community Development Float Loans — partially finance
acquisition & redevelopment — Nicholson Terminals Warehouse (O 1784-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program — Director of Aging
— Community Development Block Grant funds (O 775-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Social service programs — Directors of City Departments — contract — Memoranda
of Understanding — recreation activities (O 1119-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1398
Social services agencies, community development — enter into or amend — contracts —
memorandums of understandings — expend funds (O 929-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427
Storefront Renovation Program — Community Development Block Grant funds (O 846-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Western Reserve Historical Society — 2002 African-American Heritage and Cultural
Celebration — Ward 9 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1283-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
Year XXVIII Community Development Block Grant — various public improvements — Dirs.
of Comm. Dev., Pub. Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Pub. Utilities
(O 928-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Your Home Program — expend funds — amend Sec. 4/0.1575-2000 (O 508-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Community Development Block Grant Program
Administrative expenses — Community Development Block Grant funds (O 845-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Cleveland Housing Network — Community Development Block Grant float loan — construction
of low income rental housing (O 843-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Code Enforcement Program — administrative expenses — Community Development Block Grant
funds (O 848-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Consumer Affairs — fair housing services — Community Development Block Grant funds
(O 776-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Housing Rehabilitation Programs; — administration — CDBG and Federal HOME Program funds
— professional consultants — Section 8 Housing Quality Standards (O 844-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — Community Development Block Grant funds and
Federal Home funds (O 996-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1430
Project Clean Program — Community Development Block Grant funds — Parks, Recreation
and Properties (O 779-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program — Director of Aging
— Community Development Block Grant funds (O 775-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Storefront Renovation Program — Community Development Block Grant funds (O 846-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425
Year XXVIII Community Development Block Grant — various public improvements — Dirs.
of Comm. Dev., Pub. Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Pub. Utilities
(O 928-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393

Community Reinvestment Area
Establish — amend Sec. 4a of Ord. No. 1776-A-90 (O 849-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426
Lakeside Ave. north, W. 6th Street east, St. Clair Ave. south, & W. 9th St. west
— establishing — amend Sec. 6 of Ord. No. 2831-86 (O 842-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424

1446

June 19, 2002

The City Record

87

Community Relations Board
Community Relations Board — RTA Board — Gateway Economic Development — Fair Housing
Board — Oath Of Office (F 1230-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1363
Hajj, Ziad — Mayor’s Appointment (F 499-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Condolences
Grisanti, Alfred (R 1244-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Guilford, June Ware (R 1245-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Pope, Ryben E. Jr. (R 1246-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Congratulations
Bethany English Lutheran Church — 100th
Exum, Consuella (R 1250-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gay and Lesbian Pride Month (R 1251-02) .
Morgan, Marion (R 1248-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tisler, Lou (R 1249-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Anniversary (R
................
................
................
................

1247-02)
........
........
........
........

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

. 1364
. 1364
. 1364
. 1364
. 1364

Consumer Affairs
Fair housing services — Community Development Block Grant funds (O 776-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Contracts
Acquisition of machinery and equipment — 1230 West 58th Street — Rex-Buckeye Company,
Inc. — Economic Development (O 761-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Air Canada — City Contract No. 55337 — amendment — Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport (O 1091-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Cleveland Action to Support Housing (CASH) — housing — loan programs — Community
Development (O 931-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428
Contract No. 31083 — amendment — American Airlines, Inc. — deletion of certain space
(O 979-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Fries & Schuele Building — 1948 W. 25th St. — renovation — Ohio City Near West Dev.
Corp. (O 1003-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
Housing Trust Fund Program — various housing development entities (O 997-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
King Media Enterprises (Call & Post) — continuing its operation and retaining —
Economic Development (O 656-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Lelolai Bakery & Caf., Ltd. — expansion — 1889 W. 25th St. — development assistance
— Economic Development (O 1002-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Lorain Ave., 14550 — lease — sixth amendment to Contract No. 38890 (O 727-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Low income housing units — Cleveland Housing Network (O 930-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427
Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Association Local 404 — site
improvement — 1417 E. 25th St. (O 936-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Science Applications International Corporation — environmental services — pilot study
— Contract No. 58289 — amendment (O 1196-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Social services agencies, community development — enter into or amend — contracts —
memorandums of understandings — expend funds — Department of Community Development
(O 929-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427
Tug Road — modifications in Contract No. 57869 — Perk Company, Inc. — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, (O 982-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
US Airways, Inc. — City Contract No. 28672 — amendment — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 1090-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Cuyahoga County Port Authority
Patton, Charles Jr. — Mayor’s Appointment (F 1470-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority
Midnight Basketball Program — grant — Parks, Recreation and Properties (O 840-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Deeds
E. 105 St. & Hough Ave. — Modification of Deed Restriction — Case Western Reserve Univ.
— Cleveland Foundation — Parks, Recreation & Properties Dept. (O 2140-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Dominion East Ohio
Natural gas — purchase — Director of Finance (O 831-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1422

1447

The City Record

88

June 19, 2002

Easements
Otey Warehouse LLC — easement rights — Industrial Parkway (O 1301-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Cuyahoga Soil and Water District — Conservation Easement Agreement — City of Brook Park
— Department of Port Control (O 530-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Economic Development Department
4208 Prospect, Ltd. — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan — Economic Development
Initiative Grant Agreement — 4208 Prospect Ave — acquisition & improvements
(O 1129-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
4208 Prospect, Ltd. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 4208 Prospect Ave. — acquisition
& improvements (O 1130-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
4415 Euclid LLC — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan — Economic Development Initiative
Grant Agreement — 4415 Euclid Ave. — acquisition & improvement (O 1133-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
4415 Euclid LLC — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 4415 Euclid Ave. — acquisition &
improvements (O 1135-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Acquisition of machinery and equipment — 1230 West 58th Street — Rex-Buckeye Company,
Inc. (O 761-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation — grant agreement — 14701 Puritas Ave.
(O 1137-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Bingham Building — acquisition and rehabilitation — amend the title and Sects. 1 & 2
of Ord. No. 1972-01 — Bingham Building Limited Partnership (O 777-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Buckeye Area Dev. Corp. — loan and grant agreement — 11801-11 Buckeye
Rd (O 934-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428
Buckeye Area Dev. Corp. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 11801-11 Buckeye Rd. — ten year
sixty percent abatement (O 935-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428
Chagrin Highlands Ltd. — Master Development Agreement — second amendment — Chagrin
Highlands, Ltd. (O 137-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Cleveland Foodbank, Inc. — lease — Public Utilities Dept. — Clean Ohio Fund Program
(O 2080-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund — loan assistance — 1084 E. 152nd St.
(O 1282-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1384
Fries & Schuele Building — 1948 W. 25th St. — renovation — Ohio City Near West Dev.
Corp. (O 1003-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
Fries and Schuele Building — renovation — amend Ord. No. 2102-01 — Ward 14
Neighborhood Equity Fund (O 1215-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1434
King Media Enterprises (Call & Post) — contract — continuing its operation and
retaining (O 656-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
League Park — improvement — amend the title and Sec. 5 of Ord. No. 1138-01
(O 841-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Lelolai Bakery & Caf., Ltd. — expansion — 1889 W. 25th St. — development assistance
(O 1002-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Lonzo Coleman — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan — Economic Development Initiative
Grant Agreement — 1745 E. 45th St. — acquisition & improvements (O 1134-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
LTV Steel Company, Inc. — Section 2 Job Retention — amend the portion of Sec.
3/O.1742-88 — Enterprise Zone Agreement (O 656-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Medici Properties LLC — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 6419-6421 Detroit Ave. (O 1001-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
MidTown Cleveland — grant agreement — MidTown Technology Action Fund — attract high
technology businesses (O 1128-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District — Nine-Mile Creek Culvert — repairs (O 1127-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Oatey Warehouse, LLC, Oaty Co., Oaty Supply Chyain Services and Cherne Industries, Inc.
— Enterprise Zone Agreement — acquire & relocated — Fogg Industrial Park Sublot
24A (O 1136-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Association Local 404 — contract
— site improvement — 1417 E. 25th St. (O 936-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Orbital Research, Inc. — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan — Economic Development
Initiative Grant Agreement — 4415 Euclid Ave. — machinery & equipment (O 1132-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Orbital Research, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 4415 Euclid Ave. — machinery &
equipment (O 1131-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Payne Avenue, 4320 — Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity — Hepp Kondas
Incorporated (O 1761-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Saltzman H-Realty Co. Ltd. — Dave’s Slavic Village Market — Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 1223-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Saltzman H-Realty Co., Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement
— amend Ord. No. 2038-01 (O 940-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429
The Cleveland Growers Marketing Company, Inc. — Acquisition and Development Loan and
Grant Agreement — south of Cedar Ave. (O 1288-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1386
The Urban League of Greater Cleveland — 2930 Prospect Avenue — Empowerment Zone Section
108 loan — Economic Development Initiative Grant Agreement (O 1273-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1378
Vocational Guidance Services, Inc. — Youth Opportunity Program 2202-03 — grant — U.S.
Department of Labor (O 601-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391

1448

June 19, 2002

The City Record

89

Emergency Medical Service Division
Domestic Preparedness Grant — grant — St. Vincent Charity Hospital — implement
(O 772-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Empowerment Zone
The Urban League of Greater Cleveland — 2930 Prospect Avenue — Empowerment Zone Section
108 loan — Economic Development Initiative Grant Agreement (O 1273-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1378
Enterprise Zone Agreement
4208 Prospect, Ltd. — 4208 Prospect Ave. — acquisition & improvements (O 1130-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
4415 Euclid LLC — 4415 Euclid Ave. — acquisition & improvements (O 1135-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
LTV Steel Company, Inc. — Section 2 Job Retention — amend the portion of Sec.
3/O.1742-88 (O 656-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Medici Properties LLC — 6419-6421 Detroit Ave. (O 1001-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Oatey Warehouse, LLC, Oaty Co., Oaty Supply Chyain Services and Cherne Industries, Inc.
— acquire & relocated — Fogg Industrial Park Sublot 24A (O 1136-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Orbital Research, Inc. — 4415 Euclid Ave. — machinery & equipment (O 1131-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Saltzman H-Realty Co., Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket, Inc. — amend Ord. No. 2038-01
(O 940-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429
Famicos Foundation
Ward 8 Home Repair Program — Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1224-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Fees
Fees for use of the airport by various vehicle operators — new Section 571.88
(O 2091-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Finance Department
Audit of cable franchise tax payment — auditors (O 1074-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CIJIS Phase III Enhancements — agreements — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 1071-02) . . . . .
Cleveland Housing Network — convert loans to grants — affordable housing — amend
contracts — Community Development Dept. (O 2411-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collective Bargaining Policy — determining — salary and/or other benefits — Division
of Police, Fire and Emergency Medical Service (O 2109-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Court Community Service Cleveland Work Crew Program — contract — Cleveland Municipal
Court (O 977-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Criminal and civil filing system — 2003 — purchase — Cleveland Municipal Court
(O 677-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Funds transfer — from Other Funds to Police Division (O 1855-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Microfiche services — purchase — various divisions (O 1058-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Natural gas — purchase — Dominion East Ohio (O 831-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oracle Corporation — contract — amend Ord. No. 1014-02 — Cleveland Municipal Court
(O 1290-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paper products — purchase — various divisions (O 1062-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payband — amend Sections 8, 28, 30 & 34 of Ordinance No. 1562-01 (O 290-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payment — membership dues — various professional organizations (O 832-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs — 2002-2003 school year — Parks,
Recreation and Properties (O 1264-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shredding services (O 1234-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Standard wire — purchase — various divisions (O 1070-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Unarmed uniformed security guard services — purchase — various divisions
(O 1066-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1431
. . . . . . . . . . 1395
. . . . . . . . . . 1410
. . . . . . . . . . 1402
. . . . . . . . . . 1394
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1418
1403
1395
1422

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1386
1395
1403
1422

. . . . . . . . . . 1367
. . . . . . . . . . 1403
. . . . . . . . . . 1395
. . . . . . . . . . 1395

Funds
Consumer Affairs — fair housing services — Community Development Block Grant funds
(O 776-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund — loan assistance — 1084 E. 152nd St.
— Economic Development (O 1282-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Clean Program — Community Development Block Grant funds — Parks, Recreation
and Properties and Community Development (O 779-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program — Director of Aging
— Community Development Block Grant funds (O 775-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Your Home Program — expend funds — amend Sec. 4/0.1575-2000 — Community Development
(O 508-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1449

. . . . . . . . . 1420
. . . . . . . . . 1384
. . . . . . . . . 1420
. . . . . . . . . 1420
. . . . . . . . . 1403

The City Record

90

June 19, 2002

Gambling
Gambling — amend Code Sections 611.01 and 611.02 (O 184-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411

General Fund
Building and Housing Department — new Sects 138.01 to 138.07 — amend Sects 137.02 and
3103.01 — repeal Sects 137.03, 137.04, 137.16, and 137.161 — transfer
$2,770,800.00 — amend Ord. No. 469-02 (O 1266-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1368
Funds transfer — from Other Funds to Police Division (O 1855-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403

Glenville Development Corporation
E. 102nd & 103rd St. — Land Reutilization Program (O 1271-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1376

Golf Courses
Golf course fees — amend Section 133.29 (O 540-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1415

Grants
2003 Federal Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program — Ohio Department of Health
— environmental assessments — Medicaid-eligible children (O 992-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1430
Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant — purchase of equipment — Federal Bureau of Justice
Assistance (O 770-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Community Access Program — Ohio Department of Health (O 1101-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Domestic Preparedness Grant — Division of EMS — St. Vincent Charity Hospital —
implement (O 772-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Educational workshop — members of Cleveland City Council — Cleveland Foundation
(O 1289-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1386
Environment Division — operation — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(O 993-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1430
Integrated Air Toxic Pilot Project — United States Environmental Protection Agency —
Public Health (O 991-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429
Just Chillin’ Club Grant — Ohio Minority Health Commission (O 1100-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431
Midnight Basketball Program — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — Parks,
Recreation and Properties (O 840-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Mill Creek Waterfall Conservation Project — Clean Ohio Conservation Fund
(O 1199-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Mt. Sinai Health Care Foundation Program — Department of Aging (O 787-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1422
Ohio Bicentennial Legacy Tree Planting Grant Program — Ohio Dept. of Natural Resources
— agreement — Park Works — Community Development Dept. (O 2372-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
State Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program — Ohio Department of Health
(O 1099-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Vocational Guidance Services, Inc. — Youth Opportunity Program 2202-03 — U.S.
Department of Labor (O 601-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391

Health Centers
The MetroHealth System — Lease By Way of Concession — Public Health Dept.
(O 1733-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403

Health Department
2003 Federal Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program — grant — Ohio Department of
Health — environmental assessments — Medicaid-eligible children (O 992-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1430
AIDS related services — contracts — various agencies — Community Development
(O 1198-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
AIDS-related services — contracts — various agencies (O 1197-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Community Access Program — grant — Ohio Department of Health (O 1101-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Environment Division — operation — grant — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(O 993-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1430
Integrated Air Toxic Pilot Project — grant — United States Environmental Protection
Agency (O 991-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429
Just Chillin’ Club Grant — grant — Ohio Minority Health Commission (O 1100-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431
State Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program — grant — Ohio Department of Health
(O 1099-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
The MetroHealth System — Lease By Way of Concession (O 1733-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403

1450

June 19, 2002

The City Record

91

Homeless
Northeast Ohio Coalition — Homeless for Community Enrichment Work Training Program —
Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1287-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
Insurance
Home and auto insurance — urging investigation — high premiums — Cleveland residents
(R 1310-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Land Reutilization Program
Buckeye Area Development Corporation — scattered sites (O 1269-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1374
Cedar and Central (between) — along E. 40th & E. 43rd Sts. — Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc. (O 933-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Cedar Ave. — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 1202-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Cornelia Ave., 7501 — Nelida Ivette Wyatt (O 599-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Crawford Rd. — Belva and Earl C. Goodley, Jr. (O 132-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
E. 102nd & 103rd St. — Glenville Development Corporation (O 1271-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1376
E. 57th St. — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 932-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
E. 59th, 68th, 69th, 70th Sts. — Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity, Inc. (O 780-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1421
E. 61st St., 2431 — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 1201-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
E. 72 St., 1023 — Eveadean Armstead (O 131-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
E. 81st St., 1865-1871 — Eva Denise McCord (O 1270-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1376
E. 84 St., 1238 — Maria Grant (O 138-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
E. 92 St., 1390 — Jayce P. Keys (O 136-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
East 98th Street, 1132 and 1136 — Charles Hall and Brenda J. Hall (O 1458-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
East 111th St. & Forest Ave. & Soike Ave. — Buckeye Area Development Corporation
(O 1268-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1373
Gallup and Nursery Avenues & East 66th and East 70th Street —Cleveland Housing Network,
Inc. (O 1267-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1373
Medina Ave. — Eugene L. Bell (O 134-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation — scattered sites (O 1265-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1367
Prospect Ave., 3606 — 2061 E. 36 St. — Abraham Realty, Inc. (O 1008-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Landmark Commission
Cleveland Christian Home for Children — designate — Cleveland landmark (O 942-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
McEwen, Velma — Mayor’s Appointment (F 140-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Sande, Theodore — Mayor’s Appointment (F 138-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Shorr, Randall — Mayor’s Appointment (F 142-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Law Department
Collective Bargaining Policy — determining — salary and/or other benefits — Division
of Police, Fire and Emergency Medical Service (O 2109-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Employment of associate counsel — amend Section 125.04 (O 62-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Lease by Way of Concession
The MetroHealth System — Public Health Dept. (O 1733-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Leases
Cleveland Foodbank, Inc. — Public Utilities Dept. — Clean Ohio Fund Program (O 2080-01). . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
E. 55th St., 1468 — lease property — One Stop Job Center — Northeast Ohio Neighborhood
Health Services, Inc. (O 1125-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Liquor Permits
Broadview Rd., 2071 — transfer (Ward 15) (F 1236-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Broadview Rd., 2139 — objection — withdraw (Ward 15) (R 1308-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Broadview Rd., 3314 — transfer (Ward 15) (F 1242-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
E. 105th St., 1250 — new (Ward 8) (F 1235-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
E. 135th St., 3218 — objection (Ward 4) (R 1228-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1409
E. 185th St., 532 — transfer (Ward 11) (F 1238-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Harvard Ave., 14720 — objection (Ward 1) (R 1309-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Harvard Ave., 14720 — transfer (Ward 1) (F 1307-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1229-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1410
Lorain Ave., 14008 — transfer (Ward 21) (F 1239-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Lorain Ave., 14053 — transfer (Ward 21) (F 1240-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Madison Ave., 10500 — transfer (Ward 19) (F 1237-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
St. Clair Ave., 12200 — transfer (Ward 9) (F 1241-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364

1451

The City Record

92

June 19, 2002

Loans
Quay 55 Limited Partnership — Community Development Float Loans — partially finance
acquisition & redevelopment — Nicholson Terminals Warehouse — Community
Development Dept. (O 1784-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
LTV Steel Company
Section 2 Job Retention — amend the portion of Sec. 3/O.1742-88 — Enterprise Zone
Agreement (O 656-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Lutheran Housing Corporation
Crime Watch and Tutoring Program — Ward 15, and 16 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1284-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
Home Repair Program — Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1305-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Maintenance Division
Trees — plant at various locations (O 1115-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Mayor’s Appointments
Adams, Dorothy — Police Review Board (F 544-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Community Relations Board — RTA Board — Gateway Economic Development — Fair Housing
Board — Oath Of Office (F 1230-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1363
Hajj, Ziad — Community Relations Board (F 499-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
McEwen, Velma — Landmarks Commission (F 140-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Patton, Charles Jr. Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (F 1470-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Pontoni, Martha — Police Review Board (F 1592-96) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Sande, Theodore — Landmarks Commission (F 138-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Shorr, Randall — Landmarks Commission (F 142-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T

Memoranda of Understanding
Social service programs — Directors of City Departments — contract — recreation
activities (O 1119-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1398
Social services agencies, community development — enter into or amend — contracts —
expend funds — Department of Community Development (O 929-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427

Metro Health Medical Center
HIV/AIDs Outreach Program — Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity Funds — Community Development
(O 1286-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
District Banner System — amend Ord. No. 1144-02 (O 1212-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1432
Lease By Way of Concession — Public Health Dept. (O 1733-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division (MVM)
Air compressor parts — purchase (O 989-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Automotive and truck oils — purchase (O 908-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Chrysler automobile, van and truck parts — purchase (O 990-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Cushman-Ransome equipment parts — purchase (O 912-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Duplex cab and chassis fire apparatus parts — contract — Maltese Fire Equipment — LTI
and Grumman fire apparatus parts — Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 988-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Equipment and vehicle batteries — purchase (O 916-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Ford automobile, van, truck and police vehicle parts — purchase (O 983-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Ford tractor mowers — purchase (O 915-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Fuel control terminals — telephone consultation — E.J. Ward, Inc. (O 984-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Generators — maintain (O 919-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
International truck parts — purchase (O 911-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Leach packer parts — contract — A & H Equipment Co. (O 985-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429
Meyer snow plow and spreader parts, — purchase (O 910-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Mowers and cutting equipment — purchase (O 918-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
New tires — purchase (O 917-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Pierce fire apparatus parts — contract — Finley Fire Equipment (O 987-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Sutphen fire apparatus parts — contract — Sutphen Corporation (O 986-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Tire repair road service — purchase (O 913-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Towing services — purchase (O 909-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392

1452

June 19, 2002

The City Record

93

Neighborhood Equity Funds
MetroHealth Medical Center — HIV/AIDs Outreach Program — Ward 5 — Community
Development (O 1286-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
Alta House — Senior Social Support and Youth Programs — Ward 6 (O 1211-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431
Boys and Girls Club of Cleveland — Recreational Programs and Activities — Ward
12 (O 1293-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Broadway Ave., 6966 — fire alarm system — Slavic Village Development — Ward 12
(O 659-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Cleveland Community Building Initiative — Cutting Edge Training Program — Ward
3 (O 1222-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Cleveland Public Theater’s Cleveland Act Now and Student Enrichment Program — amend Ord.
No. 2377-01 — Ward 17 (O 1225-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Famicos Foundation — Ward 8 Home Repair Program — Ward 8 (O 1224-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Fries and Schuele Building — renovation — amend Ord. No. 2102-01 — Ward 14
(O 1215-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1434
Hough Community Council Inc. — Hough Enrichment and Lifeline Program — Ward
7 (O 1219-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
IJN-1 Foundation — housing and counseling services for troubled youth — Ward 2
(O 661-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Kenneth L. Johnson Recreation Center — Youth Football and Recreation Program — Ward
4 (O 1221-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Lutheran Housing Corporation — Crime Watch and Tutoring Program — Ward 15, and
16 (O 1284-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
Lutheran Housing Corporation — Home Repair Program — Ward 2 (O 1305-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Moore Faith Ministries — Performing Arts Education Program — Ward 2 (O 1304-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Northeast Ohio Coalition — Homeless for Community Enrichment Work Training Program —
Ward 5 (O 1287-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
Saltzman H-Realty Co. Ltd. — Dave’s Slavic Village Market — Ward 12 — Economic
Development (O 1223-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Senior Outreach Services Health Promotion and Socialization Program — amend Ord. No.
1514-01 — Ward 6 (O 1276-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381
Senior Outreach Services, Inc. — Senior Outreach Services Health Promotion
and Socialization Program — Ward 6 (O 1277-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381
Western Reserve Historical Society — 2002 African-American Heritage and Cultural
Celebration — Ward 9 (O 1283-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385

Newspaper Dispensing Devices
Sections 680.01 and 680.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2436-A-90, passed June 17, 1991, relating to newspaper
dispensing devices (O 32-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401

Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
Nine-Mile Creek Culvert — repairs — Economic Development (O 1127-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399

Office of Equal Opportunity
100 Black Men & Friends Summit 2002 (F 1234-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364

Ohio City Near West Development Corporation
Fries & Schuele Building — 1948 W. 25th St. — renovation (O 1003-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
Fries and Schuele Building — renovation — amend Ord. No. 2102-01 — Ward 14
Neighborhood Equity Fund (O 1215-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1434

Ohio Department of Natural Resources
Ohio Bicentennial Legacy Tree Planting Grant Program — grant — agreement — Park Works
— Community Development Dept. (O 2372-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391

Ohio Department of Public Health
2003 Federal Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program — grant — environmental
assessments — Medicaid-eligible children (O 992-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1430

1453

The City Record

94

June 19, 2002

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Environment Division — operation — grant (O 993-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1430
Integrated Air Toxic Pilot Project — grant — United States Environmental Protection
Agency — Public Health (O 991-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429

Parking Violations Bureau
Parking infraction fines — amend Code Section 459.11 — (O 1961-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403

Parks
Coach Eugene Duke Field — change name — Loew Park (O 1292-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Alexander Graham Bell Elementary School playground — public improvement — contract
(O 1815-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
City Council Archives — relocate — Convention Center — public improvement
(O 1213-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1433
City Year — community service work — amend Sec. 1 of Ord. No. 360-02 (O 773-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
City-owned parks and recreation facilities — public improvement (O 1114-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Coach Eugene Duke Field — change name — Loew Park (O 1292-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
E. 105 St. & Hough Ave. — Modification of Deed Restriction — Case Western Reserve Univ.
— Cleveland Foundation (O 2140-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Electrical motors and pumps — contract — amend Ord. No. 2055-98 (O 595-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Golf course fees — amend Section 133.29 (O 540-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1415
Heating, ventilating, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment — purchase —
Division of Property Management (O 1116-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1398
HVAC system — repair — First District Police Station (O 1210-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431
Kenneth L. Johnson Recreation Center — Youth Football and Recreation Program — Ward
4 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1221-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Midnight Basketball Program — grant — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority
(O 840-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Mill Creek Waterfall Conservation Project — grant — Clean Ohio Conservation Fund
(O 1199-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Parks, Recreation and Properties facilities — rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing
— Public Service (O 837-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Project Clean Program — Community Development Block Grant funds — Parks, Recreation
and Properties and Community Development (O 779-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs — 2002-2003 school year — Finance
(O 1264-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1367
Social service programs — Directors of City Departments — contract — Memoranda
of Understanding — recreation activities (O 1119-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1398
Southwest Recreation Center — Football and Recreation Program — Ward 10 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1281-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1384
Trees — plant at various locations (O 1115-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Year XXVIII Community Development Block Grant — various public improvements — Dirs.
of Comm. Dev., Pub. Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Pub. Utilities
(O 928-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393

Peddlers
Aikens, David (Ward 4) (O 1291-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1386
Johnson, Fred (Ward 5) (O 1285-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
Johnson, Fred ( Ward 5) (O.)
Smith, Michael (Ward 8) (O 1297-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388

Permits
Gateway Economic Development Corporation — right-of-way — six bollards and one flagpole
(O 1279-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1383
Guitar Mania — fiberglass guitars — United Way Services (O 1278-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381
Wetlands and streams course preservation & restoration — various agreements with
mitigation partners for airport expansion (O 1002-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Personnel Department

1454

June 19, 2002

The City Record

95

Collective Bargaining Policy — determining — salary and/or other benefits — Division
of Police, Fire and Emergency Medical Service (O 2109-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55th St., 1468 — lease property — One Stop Job Center — Northeast Ohio Neighborhood
Health Services, Inc. (O 1125-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge 8 — bargaining agreement (O 854-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Longshoremen’s Association, Local No. 1317 — compensation — amending Ord.
No. 469-02 (O 1126-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Local 1099 — Crafts — collective bargaining agreement — repeal Sec. 43 of Ord.
No. 469-02 — new Sects. 43a, 43b, and 43c (O 1272-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, Security Officers — collective bargaining
agreement (O 855-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payband — amend Sections 8, 28, 30 & 34 of Ordinance No. 1562-01 (O 290-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1402
. . . . . . . . . . . 1399
. . . . . . . . . . . 1426
. . . . . . . . . . . 1399
. . . . . . . . . . . 1377
. . . . . . . . . . . 1426
. . . . . . . . . . . 1403

Police Division
Funds transfer — from Other Funds to Police Division (O 1855-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HVAC system — repair — First District Police Station — Parks, Recreation
and Properties (O 1210-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mobile data computer pilot project — contract — Cuyahoga Regional Information
— fourth police district (O 1105-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Photo lab materials — purchase (O 1103-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prisoner meals — purchase (O 1102-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
........
System
........
........
........

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397

Port Control Department
Advertising concession — operation — concession agreement — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 550-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Air Canada — City Contract No. 55337 — amendment — Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport (O 1091-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Assess fees — parking lot operators — off airport property (O 1196-96) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Aviation communications equipment — install new and replacement — removal of existing
equipment (O 1396-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boilers — repair — various divisions (O 941-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Building automation system — purchase — Siemens Building Technologies, Inc. —
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 761-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Canopies — public improvement (O 1092-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Expansion Program — public improvement
(O 471-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coil casing section — fluid cooler — replace — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 429-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collection of landing fees by fixed base operators — new Section 571.851 (O 2092-2000) . . . . . . . . .
Contract No. 31083 — amendment — American Airlines, Inc. — deletion of certain space
(O 979-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga Soil and Water District — Conservation Easement Agreement — City of Brook Park
(O 530-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deicing chemicals — purchase — various divisions (O 1258-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electrical vaults 5 and 7 — upgrades — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1260-02) . . .
FAA TRACON — constructing (O 1394-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fees for use of the airport by various vehicle operators — new Section 571.88 (O 2091-2000) . . . .
Fingerprinting services — Federal Aviation Administration — agreement (O 1094-02) . . . . . . . . . . .
HVAC, fire protection and lighting systems — terminal modifications — public
improvement (O 529-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Information Technology Systems Project — consultants — Cleveland Hopkins & Burke
Lakefront Airports (O 1492-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mezzanine — install — Central Receiving (O 1010-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
NASA facilities — demolishing, relocating and constructing — to permit the construction
of Runway 5L/23R (O 1395-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oil water separators — maintain — various divisions (O 428-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sanitary line and collection berm — construction — Centralized Deicing Facility, Phase
Ia project (O 1095-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Science Applications International Corporation — environmental services — pilot study
— Contract No. 58289 — amendment (O 1196-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Surveyors — parcels (O 900-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Towing services — purchase — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1259-02) . . . . . . . . . . .
Tug Road — modifications in Contract No. 57869 — Perk Company, Inc. — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, (O 982-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
US Airways, Inc. — City Contract No. 28672 — amendment — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 1090-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wetlands and streams course preservation & restoration — various agreements with
mitigation partners for airport expansion (O 1002-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1455

. . . . . . . 1402
. . . . . . . 1396
. . . . . 1401-T
. . . . . . . 1402
. . . . . . . 1393
. . . . . . . 1392
. . . . . . . 1396
. . . . . . . 1402
. . . . . . . 1402
. . . . . . . 1402
. . . . . . . 1394
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1391
1364
1365
1402
1402
1396

. . . . . . . 1391
. . . . . . . 1403
. . . . . . . 1403
. . . . . . . 1402
. . . . . . . 1402
. . . . . . . 1396
. . . . . . . 1400
. . . . . . . 1392
. . . . . . . 1365
. . . . . . . 1394
. . . . . . . 1396
. . . . . . . 1402

The City Record

96

June 19, 2002

Purchases and Supplies Division
Mill Creek Waterfall Conservation Project — grant — Clean Ohio Conservation Fund (O 1199-02) . . . . . . 1401
Recognition
Greater Bethel A.M.E. Church (R 1255-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Greater Cleveland Drug Court Advisory Board (R 1252-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Jackson, Justin D. (R 1254-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Patten, Joseph F. (R 1256-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Redevelopment (R 1253-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364

Regional Transit Authority
Community Relations Board — RTA Board — Gateway Economic Development — Fair Housing
Board — Oath Of Office (F 1230-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1363
Fares on buses and rapid transit — reduce — Urging (R 1120-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Cuba — U.S. relations — calling upon the U.S. President to normalize (R 1226-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
Father’s Day — honoring all fathers (R 1227-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1409
Gasoline station operators to offer full service — no added cost to the customer (R 1119-2000) . . . . . . . . . 1402
Home and auto insurance — urging investigation — high premiums — Cleveland residents
(R 1310-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Reopen Aviation High School system — utilize the school solely for training and support
services — Urging — Cleveland Board of Education — Superintendent — mayor White
(R 826-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
RTA to reduce the fares on buses and rapid transit — Urging (R 1120-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402

Right-of-Way
Gateway Economic Development Corporation — six bollards and one flagpole — permit
(O 1279-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1383
Safety Department
Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant — grant — purchase of equipment — Federal Bureau
of Justice Assistance (O 770-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Collective Bargaining Policy — determining — salary and/or other benefits — Division
of Police, Fire and Emergency Medical Service (O 2109-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Domestic Preparedness Grant — grant — Division of EMS — St. Vincent Charity Hospital
— implement (O 772-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Drug-related activities — new Sec. 607.19 (O 925-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Gambling — amend Code Sections 611.01 and 611.02 (O 184-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411
Mobile data computer pilot project — contract — Cuyahoga Regional Information System
— fourth police district (O 1105-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Parking infraction fines — amend Code Section 459.11 — (O 1961-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Photo lab materials — purchase — Division of Police (O 1103-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Prisoner meals — purchase — Division of Police (O 1102-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Prostitution — new Section 619.11 (O 924-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Public Safety facilities — rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing — Public Service (O 838-02) . . . . . . . 1423
Trucks — Loads dropping or leaking; removal required; tracking mud — amend Code Sec.
439.11 (O 2196-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1410
Salaries
Building and Housing Department — new Sects 138.01 to 138.07 — amend Sects 137.02 and
3103.01 — repeal Sects 137.03, 137.04, 137.16, and 137.161 — transfer
$2,770,800.00 — amend Ord. No. 469-02 (O 1266-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1368
Compensation — amend Ord. No. 469-02 (O 1214-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1433
Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge 8 — bargaining agreement (O 854-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426
International Longshoremen’s Association, Local No. 1317 — compensation — amending Ord.
No. 469-02 (O 1126-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Local 1099 — Crafts — collective bargaining agreement — repeal Sec. 43 of Ord.
No. 469-02 — new Sects. 43a, 43b, and 43c (O 1272-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1377
Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, Security Officers — collective bargaining
agreement (O 855-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426
Payband — amend Sections 8, 28, 30 & 34 of Ordinance No. 1562-01 (O 290-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403

1456

June 19, 2002

The City Record

97

Service Department
African American Family Heritage Day Picnic — banners — annual picnic (O 1296-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Air compressor parts — purchase — Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 989-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Aspen Court N.W. — intention to vacate (Ward 17) (R 789-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Auto and truck batteries — amend Ord. No. 132-01 (O 1112-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Automotive and truck oils — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 908-02) . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Boys & Girls Club of America — agreement — use of its new football and baseball
facility — concrete curb and sidewalk work (O 1295-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Broadway Avenue Bridge — replace surface (O 1261-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1365
Catalpa Rd — Cleveland Rd — assessment equalization board — estimated assessments for
improvement (O 1303-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Cedar Rd. — traffic signals, poles and underground wiring — replacement (O 1110-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Chrysler automobile, van and truck parts — purchase — Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 990-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Cushman-Ransome equipment parts — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 912-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Dillewood Rd. — Nottingham Rd. — Creekview DR — E. 177th St. — assessment
equalization board — estimated assessments for improvement (O 1300-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Duplex cab and chassis fire apparatus parts — contract — Maltese Fire Equipment — LTI
and Grumman fire apparatus parts — Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 988-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Equipment and vehicle batteries — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 916-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Ford automobile, van, truck and police vehicle parts — purchase — Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 983-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Ford tractor mowers — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 915-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Fuel control terminals — telephone consultation — E.J. Ward, Inc. — Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 984-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Gateway Economic Development Corporation — right-of-way — six bollards and one flagpole
— permit (O 1279-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1383
Generators — maintain — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 919-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Grant Ave. — rehabilitation — amend Ord. No. 844-92 (O 1111-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Guitar Mania — fiberglass guitars — permit — United Way Services (O 1278-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381
International truck parts — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 911-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Landscaping design services — various facilities (O 435-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Leach packer parts — contract — A & H Equipment Co. — Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 985-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429
Lorain Ave., 14550 — lease — sixth amendment to Contract No. 38890 (O 727-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
McDonald’s Restaurant — banners — Community Crimefair (O 1294-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Meyer snow plow and spreader parts, — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 910-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Mowers and cutting equipment — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 918-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
New tires — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 917-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Catholic Church — banner — annual festival (O 1306-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Parks, Recreation and Properties facilities — rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing
— Public Service (O 837-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Pavement Technology — contract — reclamite asphalt rejuvenating agent — various City
streets (O 1299-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
Payne Court N.E., E. 25th Pl. & E. 23rd Pl. — intention to vacate (R 733-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Pierce fire apparatus parts — contract — Finley Fire Equipment — Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 987-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Public Safety facilities — rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing (O 838-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423
Rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing — City Hall — amend Ord. No. 835-02
(O 1298-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
Sections 680.01 and 680.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2436-A-90, passed June 17, 1991, relating to newspaper
dispensing devices (O 32-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
St. Wendelin’s Church — 9-banners — St. Wendelin’s Church 100th Anniversary (O 1280-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1384
Sutphen fire apparatus parts — contract — Sutphen Corporation — Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 986-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
Tire repair road service — amend Ord. No. 135-01 (O 1113-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Tire repair road service — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 913-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Towing services — purchase — Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 909-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Vehicles and equipment — aftermarket material — various divisions (O 1262-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1366
W. 25th St. — traffic signals, poles and underground wiring — replacement (O 1109-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
W. 93rd St. — assessment equalization board — estimated assessments for improvement
(O 1302-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Warner and Swasey Building — 5601 Carnegie Ave. — board up — Baumann Enterprises
(O 1220-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Year XXVIII Community Development Block Grant — various public improvements — Dirs.
of Comm. Dev., Pub. Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Pub. Utilities (O 928-02) . . . . . . . 1393

1457

The City Record

98

June 19, 2002

Sewers
Replacement & rehabilitating — various locations (O 1073-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
Sewer and catch basin cleaners — repair — Division of Water Pollution Control
(O 1084-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Sewer and water line protection program — new Sections 535.22 and 525.23
(O 356-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Special Revenue Funds
Funds transfer — from Other Funds to Police Division (O 1855-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
St. Vincent Charity Hospital
Domestic Preparedness Grant — grant — Division of EMS — implement (O 772-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Statement of Work Acceptance
Cleaning and Lining 2001-Area A — Contract No. 57866 — Department of Public Utilities
(F 1243-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Street Vacation
Aspen Court N.W. — intention (Ward 17) (R 789-02) . . . . . . .
Payne Court N.E., E. 25th Pl. & E. 23rd Pl. — intention (R
Velma Ave. S.E (Ward 1) (O 904-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 7th Pl. (Ward 13) (O 902-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.......
733-02)
.......
.......

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1401
1401
1392
1427

Streets Division
Pavement Technology — contract — reclamite asphalt rejuvenating agent — various City
streets (O 1299-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
Tabled Legislation
Payne Avenue, 4320 — Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity — Hepp Kondas
Incorporated — Economic Development (O 1761-99). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Acquisition of machinery and equipment — 1230 West 58th Street — Rex-Buckeye Company,
Inc. — Economic Development (O 761-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Adams, Dorothy — Police Review Board — Mayor’s Appointment (F 544-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Advertising concession — operation — concession agreement — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 550-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Advertising on City trucks — new Section 121.07 (O 482-95) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Assess fees — parking lot operators — off airport property (O 1196-96) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Aviation communications equipment — install new and replacement — removal of existing
equipment — Port Control (O 1396-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Broadway Ave., 6966 — fire alarm system — Slavic Village Development — Ward 12
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 659-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Chagrin Highlands Ltd. — Master Development Agreement — second amendment — Chagrin
Highlands, Ltd. (O 137-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Cleveland Foodbank, Inc. — lease — Public Utilities Dept. — Clean Ohio Fund Program
(O 2080-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Expansion Program — public improvement
(O 471-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Coil casing section — fluid cooler — replace — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 429-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Collection of landing fees by fixed base operators — new Section 571.851
(O 2092-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Collective Bargaining Policy — determining — salary and/or other benefits — Division
of Police, Fire and Emergency Medical Service (O 2109-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Drug-related activities — new Sec. 607.19 (O 925-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
East 98th Street, 1132 and 1136 — Land Reutilization Program — Charles Hall and Brenda
J. Hall (O 1458-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Electrical motors and pumps — contract — amend Ord. No. 2055-98 (O 595-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Employment of associate counsel — amend Section 125.04 (O 62-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
FAA TRACON — constructing — Port Control (O 1394-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Fees for use of the airport by various vehicle operators — new Section 571.88
(O 2091-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Funds transfer — from Other Funds to Police Division (O 1855-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Gasoline station operators to offer full service — no added cost to the customer
(R 1119-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402

1458

June 19, 2002

The City Record

99

Hajj, Ziad — Community Relations Board — Mayor’s Appointment (F 499-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
IJN-1 Foundation — housing and counseling services for troubled youth — Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 661-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Information Technology Systems Project — consultants — Cleveland Hopkins & Burke
Lakefront Airports — Port Control Dept. (O 1492-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
King Media Enterprises (Call & Post) — contract — continuing its operation and
retaining — Economic Development (O 656-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Landscaping design services — various facilities (O 435-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
LTV Steel Company, Inc. — Section 2 Job Retention — amend the portion of Sec.
3/O.1742-88 — Enterprise Zone Agreement (O 656-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
McEwen, Velma — Landmarks Commission — Mayor’s Appointment (F 140-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Medici Properties LLC — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 6419-6421 Detroit Ave.
(O 1001-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Mezzanine — install — Central Receiving (O 1010-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Midnight Basketball Program — grant — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — Parks,
Recreation and Properties (O 840-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
NASA facilities — demolishing, relocating and constructing — to permit the construction
of Runway 5L/23R — Port Control (O 1395-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Oil water separators — maintain — various divisions (O 428-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Parking infraction fines — amend Code Section 459.11 — (O 1961-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Patton, Charles Jr. — Mayor’s Appointment to the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port
Authority — expire on January 28, 2004 (F 1470-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Payband — amend Sections 8, 28, 30 & 34 of Ordinance No. 1562-01 (O 290-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Pontoni, Martha — Police Review Board — Mayor’s Appointment (F 1592-96) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Prospect Ave., 3606 — 2061 E. 36 St. — Land Reutilization Program — Abraham Realty,
Inc. (O 1008-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Prostitution — new Section 619.11 (O 924-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Quay 55 Limited Partnership — Community Development Float Loans — partially finance
acquisition & redevelopment — Nicholson Terminals Warehouse — Community
Development Dept. (O 1784-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Reopen Aviation High School system — utilize the school solely for training and support
services — Urging — Cleveland Board of Education — Superintendent — mayor White
(R 826-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
RTA to reduce the fares on buses and rapid transit — Urging (R 1120-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Sande, Theodore — Landmarks Commission — Mayor’s Appointment (F 138-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Sections 680.01 and 680.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2436-A-90, passed June 17, 1991, relating to newspaper
dispensing devices (O 32-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Sewer and water line protection program — new Sections 535.22 and 525.23
(O 356-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Shorr, Randall — Landmarks Commission — Mayor’s Appointment (F 142-98). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Shredding services (O 1234-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
The MetroHealth System — Lease By Way of Concession — Public Health Dept.
(O 1733-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Used paving bricks — purchase — Division of Water (O 1389-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Wetlands and streams course preservation & restoration — various agreements with
mitigation partners for airport expansion (O 1002-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Your Home Program — expend funds — amend Sec. 4/0.1575-2000 — Community Development
(O 508-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403

Tax Abatement
Buckeye Area Dev. Corp. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 11801-11 Buckeye Rd. — ten year
sixty percent abatement (O 935-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428
Saltzman H-Realty Co., Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement
— amend Ord. No. 2038-01 (O 940-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429

Trucks
Advertising on City trucks — new Section 121.07 (O 482-95) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Trucks — Loads dropping or leaking; removal required; tracking mud — amend Code Sec.
439.11 (O 2196-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1410

United Way Services
Guitar Mania — fiberglass guitars — permit (O 1278-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381

1459

The City Record

100

June 19, 2002

Utilities Department
Otey Warehouse LLC — easement rights — Industrial Parkway (O 1301-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Audit of cable franchise tax payment — auditors — Director of Finance (O 1074-02) . . . . . . .
Auto dialer system — purchase — Cleveland Public Power (O 1081-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ballistic vests — purchase — Division of Water (O 1085-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clean and test insulators — bushing and lighting arrestors — Cleveland Public Power
(O 1075-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleaning and Lining 2001-Area A — Contract No. 57866 (F 1243-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Foodbank, Inc. — lease — Clean Ohio Fund Program (O 2080-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Doan Brook Watershed Partnership Board — designating two City officials (O 585-02). . . . . .
Insurance coverage — fire and extended — various locations (O 1078-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore — E. 72nd St. — easement rights — granting — Cleveland Electric Illuminating
Company (O 1257-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lifting equipment on one plate truck — purchase — Division of Water Pollution Control
(O 760-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Message boards (3) — purchase — Cleveland Public Power (O 1080-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mitel Networks Solutions, Inc. — contract — Mitel Communications equipment
(O 1076-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Otey Warehouse LLC — easement rights — Industrial Parkway (O 1301-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Replacement & rehabilitating — sewers — various locations (O 1073-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewer and catch basin cleaners — repair — Division of Water Pollution Control
(O 1084-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trac-vac residuals collection system — purchase — Division of Water (O 899-02) . . . . . . . . . . .
Training of business skill sets — professional consultants — various divisions
(O 1077-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trim trees — purchase — Cleveland Public Power (O 1079-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turbines (3) — emissions tests — Cleveland Public Power (O 586-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Used paving bricks — purchase — Division of Water (O 1389-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vac-All trucks — repair — Division of Water Pollution Control (O 1082-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valves, actuators and appurtenances — maintain — Division of Water (O 587-02) . . . . . . . . . .
Year XXVIII Community Development Block Grant — various public improvements — Dirs.
of Comm. Dev., Pub. Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Pub. Utilities
(O 928-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1389
1431
1396
1396

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1395
1364
1403
1418
1395

. . . . . . . . . . . 1364
. . . . . . . . . . . 1419
. . . . . . . . . . . 1396
. . . . . . . . . . . 1395
. . . . . . . . . . . 1389
. . . . . . . . . . . 1395
. . . . . . . . . . . 1396
. . . . . . . . . . . 1426
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1395
1395
1418
1402
1396
1418

. . . . . . . . . . . 1393

Vocational Guidance Services
Youth Opportunity Program 2202-03 — grant — U.S. Department of Labor (O 601-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Ward 01
Harvard Ave., 14720 — objection — liquor permit (R 1309-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Harvard Ave., 14720 — transfer — Liquor Permit (F 1307-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Velma Ave. S.E. — vacate (O 904-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Ward 02
IJN-1 Foundation — housing and counseling services for troubled youth — Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 661-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Lutheran Housing Corporation — Home Repair Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1305-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Moore Faith Ministries — Performing Arts Education Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1304-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Ward 03
African American Family Heritage Day Picnic — banners — annual picnic (O 1296-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Cleveland Community Building Initiative — Cutting Edge Training Program — Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1222-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — objection — liquor permit (R 1229-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1410
Ward 04
Aikens, David — peddler (O 1291-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Area Development Corporation — scattered sites — Land Reutilization Program
(O 1269-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 135th St., 3218 — objection — liquor permit (R 1228-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 111th St. & Forest Ave. & Soike Ave. — Buckeye Area Development Corporation
(O 1268-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kenneth L. Johnson Recreation Center — Youth Football and Recreation Program —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1221-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1460

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1386
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1374
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1409
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1373
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436

June 19, 2002

The City Record

101

Ward 05
4208 Prospect, Ltd. — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan — Economic Development
Initiative Grant Agreement — 4208 Prospect Ave — acquisition & improvements
(O 1129-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4208 Prospect, Ltd. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 4208 Prospect Ave. — acquisition
& improvements (O 1130-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar and Central (between) — along E. 40th & E. 43rd Sts. — Land Reutilization Program
— Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 933-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
(O 1202-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Rd. — traffic signals, poles and underground wiring — replacement
(O 1110-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City Council Archives — relocate — Convention Center — public improvement
(O 1213-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 57th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
(O 932-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 59th, 68th, 69th, 70th Sts. — Land Reutilization Program — Greater Cleveland Habitat
for Humanity, Inc. (O 780-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 61st St., 2431 — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
(O 1201-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gallup and Nursery Avenues & East 66th and East 70th Street — Land Reutilization Program
— Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. (O 1267-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Drug Court Advisory Board — recognition (R 1252-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grisanti, Alfred — condolence (R 1244-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Fred — peddler (Ward 5) (O 1285-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Fred — peddling — Ward 5 (O.)
MetroHealth Medical Center — HIV/AIDs Outreach Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds
— Community Development (O 1286-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northeast Ohio Coalition — Homeless for Community Enrichment Work Training Program —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1287-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., 3606 — 2061 E. 36 St. — Land Reutilization Program — Abraham Realty,
Inc. (O 1008-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Cleveland Growers Marketing Company, Inc. — Acquisition and Development Loan and
Grant Agreement — south of Cedar Ave. (O 1288-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Urban League of Greater Cleveland — 2930 Prospect Avenue — Empowerment Zone Section
108 loan — Economic Development Initiative Grant Agreement (O 1273-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Redevelopment — recognition (R 1253-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warner and Swasey Building — 5601 Carnegie Ave. — board up — Baumann Enterprises
(O 1220-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . 1399
. . . . . . 1399
. . . . . . 1393
. . . . . . 1401
. . . . . . 1397
. . . . . . 1433
. . . . . . 1393
. . . . . . 1421
. . . . . . 1401
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1373
1364
1364
1385

. . . . . . 1385
. . . . . . 1385
. . . . . . 1402
. . . . . . 1386
. . . . . . 1378
. . . . . . 1364
. . . . . . 1436

Ward 06
Alta House — Senior Social Support and Youth Programs — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1211-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Area Dev. Corp. — loan and grant agreement — 11801-11 Buckeye
Rd (O 934-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Area Dev. Corp. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 11801-11 Buckeye Rd. — ten year
sixty percent abatement (O 935-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Area Development Corporation — scattered sites — Land Reutilization Program
(O 1269-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Rd. — traffic signals, poles and underground wiring — replacement
(O 1110-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Overlook Ave. west side, Carlton Rd. north — change zoning (O 943-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Outreach Services Health Promotion and Socialization Program — amend Ord. No.
1514-01 — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1276-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Outreach Services, Inc. — Senior Outreach Services Health Promotion
and Socialization Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1277-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1431
. . . . . . . . . . 1428
. . . . . . . . . . 1428
. . . . . . . . . . 1374
. . . . . . . . . . 1397
. . . . . . . . . . 1401
. . . . . . . . . . 1381
. . . . . . . . . . 1381

Ward 07
4415 Euclid LLC — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan — Economic Development Initiative
Grant Agreement — 4415 Euclid Ave. — acquisition & improvement (O 1133-02) . . . . . . . . .
4415 Euclid LLC — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 4415 Euclid Ave. — acquisition &
improvements (O 1135-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cornelia Ave., 7501 — Land Reutilization Program — Nelida Ivette Wyatt (O 599-02) . . . . . . . .
Crawford Rd. — Belva and Earl C. Goodley, Jr. — Land Reutilization Program
(O 132-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 81st St., 1865-1871 — Land Reutilization Program — Eva Denise McCord
(O 1270-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1461

. . . . . . . . . . 1400
. . . . . . . . . . 1400
. . . . . . . . . . 1391
. . . . . . . . . . 1391
. . . . . . . . . . 1376

The City Record

102

June 19, 2002

E. 84 St., 1238 — Maria Grant — Land Reutilization Program (O 138-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
E. 92 St., 1390 — Jayce P. Keys — Land Reutilization Program (O 136-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Hough Community Council Inc. — Hough Enrichment and Lifeline Program — Ward
7 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1219-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Lonzo Coleman — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan — Economic Development Initiative
Grant Agreement — 1745 E. 45th St. — acquisition & improvements (O 1134-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Medina Ave. — Eugene L. Bell — Land Reutilization Program (O 134-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Orbital Research, Inc. — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan — Economic Development
Initiative Grant Agreement — 4415 Euclid Ave. — machinery & equipment (O 1132-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Orbital Research, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 4415 Euclid Ave. — machinery &
equipment (O 1131-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399

Ward 08
E. 102nd & 103rd St. — Land Reutilization Program — Glenville Development Corporation
(O 1271-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1376
E. 105th St., 1250 — new — liquor permit (Ward 8) (F 1235-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
East 98th Street, 1132 and 1136 — Land Reutilization Program — Charles Hall and Brenda
J. Hall (O 1458-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-T
Famicos Foundation — Ward 8 Home Repair Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1224-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Guilford, June Ware — condolence (R 1245-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
King Media Enterprises (Call & Post) — contract — continuing its operation and
retaining — Economic Development (O 656-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Lakeshore — E. 72nd St. — easement rights — granting — Cleveland Electric Illuminating
Company (O 1257-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Pope, Ryben E. Jr. — condolence (R 1246-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Smith, Michael — peddler (O 1297-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388

Ward 09
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation — Land Reutilization Program —
scattered sites (O 1265-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1367
St. Clair Ave., 12200 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1241-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Western Reserve Historical Society — 2002 African-American Heritage and Cultural
Celebration — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1283-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385

Ward 10
Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund — loan assistance — 1084 E. 152nd St.
— Economic Development (O 1282-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1384
Exum, Consuella — congratulation (R 1250-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Greater Bethel A.M.E. Church — recognition (R 1255-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District — Nine-Mile Creek Culvert — repairs — Economic
Development (O 1127-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Southwest Recreation Center — Football and Recreation Program — Ward 10 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1281-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1384

Ward 11
E. 185th St., 532 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1238-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Grisanti, Alfred — condolence (R 1244-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
McDonald’s Restaurant — banners — Community Crimefair (O 1294-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387

Ward 12
Boys and Girls Club of Cleveland — Recreational Programs and Activities — Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1293-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Broadway Ave., 6966 — fire alarm system — Slavic Village Development — Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 659-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Gallup and Nursery Avenues & East 66th and East 70th Street — Land Reutilization Program
— Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. (O 1267-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1373
Saltzman H-Realty Co. Ltd. — Dave’s Slavic Village Market — Neighborhood Equity Funds
— Economic Development (O 1223-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Saltzman H-Realty Co., Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement
— amend Ord. No. 2038-01 (O 940-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429

1462

June 19, 2002

The City Record

103

Ward 13
Broadway Avenue Bridge — replace surface (O 1261-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1365
E. 55th St., 1468 — lease property — One Stop Job Center — Northeast Ohio Neighborhood
Health Services, Inc. (O 1125-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Gateway Economic Development Corporation — right-of-way — six bollards and one flagpole
— permit (O 1279-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1383
Gay and Lesbian Pride Month — congratulation (R 1251-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Grisanti, Alfred — condolence (R 1244-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Guitar Mania — fiberglass guitars — permit — United Way Services (O 1278-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381
Lakeside Ave. north, W. 6th Street east, St. Clair Ave. south, & W. 9th St. west
— establishing a Community Reinvestment Area — amend Sec. 6 of Ord. No. 2831-86
(O 842-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424
Payne Court N.E., E. 25th Pl. & E. 23rd Pl. — intention to vacate (R 733-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
W. 25th St. — traffic signals, poles and underground wiring — replacement
(O 1109-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
W. 7th Pl. — vacate (O 902-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427

Ward 14
Fries & Schuele Building — 1948 W. 25th St. — renovation — Ohio City Near West Dev.
Corp. (O 1003-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
Fries and Schuele Building — renovation — amend Ord. No. 2102-01 — Ward 14
Neighborhood Equity Fund (O 1215-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1434
Lelolai Bakery & CafØ, Ltd. — expansion — 1889 W. 25th St. — development assistance
— Economic Development (O 1002-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1394
MetroHealth System — District Banner System — amend Ord. No. 1144-02 (O 1212-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1432
St. Wendelin’s Church — 9-banners — St. Wendelin’s Church 100th Anniversary (O 1280-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1384
W. 25th St. — traffic signals, poles and underground wiring — replacement
(O 1109-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397

Ward 15
Broadview Rd., 2071 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1236-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Broadview Rd., 2139 — objection — withdraw (R 1308-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Broadview Rd., 3314 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1242-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Lutheran Housing Corporation — Crime Watch and Tutoring Program — Ward 15, and
16 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1284-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
MetroHealth System — District Banner System — amend Ord. No. 1144-02 (O 1212-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1432

Ward 16
Coach Eugene Duke Field — change name — Loew Park (O 1292-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Lutheran Housing Corporation — Crime Watch and Tutoring Program — Ward 15, and
16 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1284-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385

Ward 17
Aspen Court N.W. — intention to vacate (R 789-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Cleveland Public Theater’s Cleveland Act Now and Student Enrichment Program — amend Ord.
No. 2377-01 — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1225-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Medici Properties LLC — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 6419-6421 Detroit Ave. (O 1001-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Catholic Church — banner — annual festival (O 1306-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
W. 67th St. & Father Caruso DR. (s.e. corner) — change the zoning (O 1275-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
W. 84th St. & Franklin Ave. (N.W. corner) — change the zoning (O 1274-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 18
Grisanti, Alfred — condolence (R 1244-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364

Ward 19
Cleveland Christian Home for Children — designate — Cleveland landmark (O 942-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Lorain Ave., north and south — change zoning (O 417-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Tisler, Lou — congratulation (R 1249-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364

1463

The City Record

104

June 19, 2002

Ward 20
Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation — grant agreement — 14701 Puritas Ave.
(O 1137-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Grayton Rd (west) & Interstate 480 (south) — change zoning height district (O 1005-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Jackson, Justin D. — recognition (R 1254-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Morgan, Marion — congratulation (R 1248-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Oatey Warehouse, LLC, Oaty Co., Oaty Supply Chyain Services and Cherne Industries, Inc.
— Enterprise Zone Agreement — acquire & relocated — Fogg Industrial Park Sublot
24A (O 1136-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
Otey Warehouse LLC — easement rights — Industrial Parkway (O 1301-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389

Ward 21
Bethany English Lutheran Church — 100th Anniversary — congratulation (R 1247-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Grisanti, Alfred — condolence (R 1244-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Lorain Ave., 14008 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1239-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Lorain Ave., 14053 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1240-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364
Lorain Ave., 14550 — lease — sixth amendment to Contract No. 38890 (O 727-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Patten, Joseph F. — recognition (R 1256-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1364

Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Landscaping design services — various facilities (O 435-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402

Water Division
Ballistic vests — purchase (O 1085-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Trac-vac residuals collection system — purchase (O 899-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426
Used paving bricks — purchase (O 1389-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Valves, actuators and appurtenances — maintain (O 587-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1418

Water Pollution Control Division
Lifting equipment on one plate truck — purchase (O 760-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1419
Sewer and catch basin cleaners — repair (O 1084-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Vac-All trucks — repair (O 1082-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396

Zoning
Grayton Rd (west) & Interstate 480 (south) — change zoning height district (O 1005-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Lorain Ave., north and south — change zoning (O 417-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Overlook Ave. west side, Carlton Rd. north — change zoning (O 943-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
W. 67th St. & Father Caruso DR. (s.e. corner) — change the zoning (O 1275-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
W. 84th St. & Franklin Ave. (N.W. corner) — change the zoning (O 1274-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

1464

