The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
September the Eleventh, Two Thousand and Two

Mayor
Jane L. Campbell
President of Council
Frank G. Jackson
Clerk of Council
Valarie J. McCall
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
50
52
56
56
58
58
58
58
58
58
59

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Frank G. Jackson
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed ..........................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell...........................................774 East 131st Street
Roosevelt Coats .........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr........................................4326 Daisy Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
Matthew Zone ..........................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Terrell Cole, Executive Assistant
Erik Janas, Executive Assistant
Rodney Jenkins, Executive Assistant
David M. McGuirk, Executive Assistant
Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant
Henry Guzman, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44108
44112
44119
44105
44113
44109
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

DEPT. OF LAW – Subodh Chandra, Director, Galen L. Schuerlein, Acting
Chief Counsel, Room 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Cleo Henderson, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael G. Konicek, Director,
1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John C. Mok, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie
Avenue.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll, Acting Director, Mural
Building, 1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS: Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland
House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
Environment – Willie Bess, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Health – Dr. Wendy Johnson, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – James A. Draper, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police \ Edward F. Lohn, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES –James Glending,
Acting Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.

Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director, 3rd
Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Sharon Dumas, Commissioner.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES –Eduardo A. Romero,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Steven Sims, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, John E. Barnes, Jr., Director;
Mayor Jane L. Campbell, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President;
Rev. Earl Preston, Vic e President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Sec retary;
Members: Diane M. Downing, Matthew Dotson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Betsy Hruby,
Asst. Sec’y.; Robert H. Baker, Director; Council President Frank G.
Jackson.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;
Members; Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver-Washington,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room
516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate
Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Subodh Chandra,
Pre sident; Finance Direc tor Robert H. Baker, Secretary; Council
President Frank G. Jackson.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law
Director Subodh Chandra; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Subodh
Chandra; Utilities Director Michael G. Konicek; Council President Frank
G. Jackson.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Christopher S. Ronayne,
Director; Anthony J. Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Chairman;
Finance Director Robert H. Baker; Council President Frank G. Jackson;
Councilman Dona Brady; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman;
Earl S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule,
Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLE VE LAN D LAND MARKS COMMIS SION – R oo m 5 19 – R ic hard
Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush,
James Gibans, Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen
Schuerlein, Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Dwayne J.
Simpson, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Emanuella Groves
12B
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan–Court Administrator,
Paul J. Mizerak–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Gregory F. Clifford–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2002

Vol. 89

No. 4631

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2002
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00
A.M.—Aviation
&
Transportation
Committee:
Westbrook,
Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt, Dolan, Gordon, Reed,
Rybka.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

VALARIE J. McCALL
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, O’Malley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Scott, Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00
vices
Zone,
well,

P.M. — Health & Human SerCommittee: Britt, Chairman;
Vice Chairman; Cintron, ConGordon, Scott, Polensek.

1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Scott, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook.

105th Street in Ward 8. Pledge of
Allegiance.
MOTION
On the Motion of Council Member
O’Malley the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Cintron.
COMMUNICATIONS

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cintron, Jones,
Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka,
Vice
Chairman,
Conwell,
Lewis,
O’Malley, Scott, Westbrook.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman; O’Malley, Reed, Sweeney.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, September 9, 2002.
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats,
Conwell, Dolan, Gordon, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, O’Malley, Polensek,
Reed, Rybka, Scott, Sweeney, Westbrook, White, Zone.
Also present were Mayor Campbell and Directors Chandra, Baker,
Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Draper,
Hudecek, Romero, Sims, Guzman,
Fumich, Taylor, Ronaye and Barnes,
Acting Directors Carrol, Glending.
Rodney Jenkins, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, David McGuirk,
Executive Assistant, Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant, Terrell
Cole, Erik Jenkins, Celeste Galascou, Director of Communications
and Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison, and Jeffrey D.
Johnson, Executive Assistant were
also present.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the Council Meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Rabbi
Richard A. Block, Senior Rabbi of
The Temple — Tifereth Israel,
located on Ansel Road and East

1993

File No. 1764-02.
From the Ohio Department of
Transportation re: Copy of Project
No. 251-02 — bridge replacement. Received.
File No. 1765-02.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Mayor’s Emergency
Requisition/Purchase
orders
—
Emergency Pesticide Spraying —
Department of Health. Received.
File No. 1766-02.
From the Department of Port Control re: copy of application for federal assistance — Construct Runway
5L/23R. Received.
File No. 1767-02.
From The Health Museum —
Health Wise, A Quarterly Publication — Summer 2002. Received.
File No. 1768-02.
From the Department of Port Control re: copy of Residential Sound
Insulation Map. Received.
File No. 1769-02.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Copy
of agreement with Basile Baumann
Prost & Associates, Inc. (City Contract #59910) re: West Side Market
rent evaluation. Received.
File No. 1770-02.
From the Case Western Reserve
University — CWRU Magazine —
Summer Issue. Received.
File No. 1771-02.
From the Department of Port Control re: copy of Grant Agreement for
Project No. 3-39-0023-6002/Construct
Runway 5L/23R, Phase II. Received.
File No. 1772-02.
From the Department of Port Control re: copy of grant application for
federal assistance — Residential
Sound
Insulation
Program.
Received.
File No. 1773-02.
From the City of North Royalton
— Certified copy of Resolution 02103 re: National Safety Appreciation
Day. Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 1774-02.
From the Department of Port Control re: Copy of grant application for
federal assistance — Sound Insulation for Islamic Mosque (formally
West
Side
Alliance
Church).
Received.
File No. 1775-02.
From
the
City
of
Broadview
Heights — Copy of Resolution No.
02-63 — declaring September 11th as
Safety Force Appreciation Day. Received.
File No. 1776-02.
From the Ohio Department of
Transportation — RE: Cuyahoga
County - City of Cleveland Project
No. 383(02), U.S. Route 6A - 6.00
State Project. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1777-02.
Re: New Application — 3632975 —
Katherine D. Harrison, d.b.a. W.
48th St. Marathon, 4810 Bridge Avenue. (Ward 17). Received.
File No. 1778-02.
Re: New Application — 9334927 —
Wafa Ayyad, Inc., 4142 Rocky River
Drive. (Ward 20). Received.
File No. 1779-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 24034660005 — East 97th
Food Market, Inc., d.b.a. Eastside
Market, 9621 Mt. Auburn Road, first
floor and basement. (Ward 4). Received.
File No. 1780-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 3663369 — Hatimco, Inc.,
d.b.a. Edgewater Delicatessen , 8701
Lake Avenue. (Ward 18). Received.
File No. 1781-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 6549262 —
1057, Inc., d.b.a. Hush, 1057 Old
River Road. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1782-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 9116690 —
2474 East 40th Street, Inc., d.b.a.
Plaza Beverage, 2474 East 40th
Street. (Ward 5). Received.
File No. 1783-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 68577350005
— Petrobarrels, Inc., d.b.a. Sunoco
Family Foods Express, 3363 East
93rd Street. (Ward 5). Received.
File No. 1784-02.
Re: New Application — 84189842085
— Speedy Superamerica LLC, d.b.a.
Speedway Starving, Marvin 8641,
4280 West 150th Street & I-71. (Ward
20). Received.
File No. 1785-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 2215275 — D. K. P. M.,
LLC, d.b.a. Danny Mac’s Irish Pub,
4920-22 Pearl Road, first floor and
basement. (Ward 16). Received.
File No. 1786-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 8699453 — Sun Valley Mart
Inc. & G. G. A. Enterprises, Inc.,

September 11, 2002

d.b.a. Sun Valley Mart, 2700 West
25th Street. (Ward 14). Received.

Referred to Public Service
City Planning Committees.

and

File No. 1787-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 54054195241 — Mac’s Convenience Stores, Inc., d.b.a. Dairy
Mart #5241, 13933 Lakewood Heights
Boulevard & gas pumps. (Ward 19).
Received.

File No. 1799-02.
Dedication Plat — Relocation of
Erieside Avenue N. E. (Ward 13).
Received.
Referred to Public Service and
City Planning Committees.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS

File No. 1788-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 54054195242 — Mac’s Convenience Stores, LLC, d.b.a. Dairy
Mart 5242, 3387 West 117th Street.
(Ward 19). Received.
File No. 1789-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 4146968 — International &
Middle East Foods, Inc., 1957 West
25th Street. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1790-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 8443121 —
Spotlight Entertainment Group, Inc.,
1575 Merwin Street, #4. (Ward 13).
Received.
File No. 1791-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — Tune Palace
Inc., d.b.a. Variety Store, 1208 East
105th Street. (Ward 8). Received.
File No. 1792-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 9093566 —
Tune Palace, Inc., d.b.a. Variety
Store, 1208 East 105th Street. (Ward
8). Received.
File No. 1793-02.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
5423890
—
Magnate,
Inc.,
d.b.a.
Mardi Gras, 1417-1423 East 21st
Street and 2112 Rockwell Avenue,
first floor. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1794-02.
Re: Agency Application — 8699435
— Sun Valley Mart, Inc. G. G. A.
Enterprises, Inc., d.b.a. Sun Valley
Mart, 2700 West 25th Street. (Ward
14). Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 1795-02.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties re: Contract PI #56803 — Tuland Park Site
Improvements. Received.
File No. 1796-02.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties re: Contract PI #59472, Archmere Park
Tennis Court Improvements. Received.
OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 1797-02.
Genesis O. Brown — Secretary to
the
Director
of
Personnel
and
Human Resources — oath of office.
Received.
PLATS
File No. 1798-02.
Dedication Plat — part of West
73rd Street and part of Denison
Avenue S.W. (Ward 17). Received.

1994

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1800-02—Louise B. Tucker.
Res. No. 1801-02—José A. Cintron.
Res. No. 1802-02—Rita J. Thomas.
Res. No. 1803-02—Archie Cotton.
Res. No. 1804-02—Dorothy E. Harris.
Res. No. 1805-02 — Theodore Eugene Godfrey.
Res. No. 1806-02—Evelyn Thomas
Lawler Tompkins.
Res. No. 1807-02 — Reginald Harrison Morton, Jr.
Res. No. 1808-02 — Charles Louis
Debruge.
Res. No. 1809-02—LaLena McKinney.
Res. No. 1810-02—Grace Yamahiro.
Res. No. 1811-02 — Fr. James J.
Grandillo.
Res. No. 1812-02—Bud McCormick.
Res. No. 1813-02 — Verland Lee
Buchanan.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1814-02 — Mrs. Ollie Bea
Cain.
Res. No. 1815-02 — St. Nicolas
Church.
Res. No. 1816-02 — Marous Brothers
Construction Company.
Res. No. 1817-02 — Jean Marie Bussey.
Res. No. 1818-02—Lawrence & Anna
Previte.
Res. No. 1819-02—Melrose Flagg.
Res. No. 1820-02 — The Hodge
Family Reunion.
Res. No. 1821-02 — Traditions Care
Center.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1822-02—Echo Brown.
Res. No. 1823-02—Catherine Eaton.
Res. No. 1824-02—Cedric Walker.
Res. No. 1825-02—Cal Dupree.
Res. No. 1826-02 — David Arthur
Pennington.
Res. No. 1827-02—Benvienido Rodriguez.
Res. No. 1828-02 — The Women’s
Center of Greater Cleveland.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1829-02—Elder Paul Carrington.

September 11, 2002
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1709-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Taxable Urban Renewal Temporary
Refunding Bonds in the principal
amount not to exceed $4,350,000 for
the purpose of (1) refunding outstanding Taxable Urban Renewal
Notes, Series 2001 issued for the purpose of acquiring property for Urban
Renewal Project Activities and (2)
paying certain costs of issuance of
said Refunding Bonds; and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, under Article VIII, Section 13 of the Ohio Constitution and
Chapter 725 of the Ohio Revised
Code (the “Act”), the City has the
power to undertake and carry out
urban renewal projects pursuant to
urban renewal plans approved by
the City from time to time, and the
City has undertaken and carried out
and intends to undertake and carry
out urban renewal activities for the
elimination of blight and for the
prevention of the development and
spread of blight and deterioration
within its designated urban renewal areas; and
Whereas, the City has undertaken
a program for the clearance and
reconstruction
of
blighted
areas
within its boundaries and, in connection therewith, is engaged in carrying out the following development
projects: (a) the Erieview II Neighborhood Development Plan No. Ohio
A-8 (the “Erieview II Development
Plan”) in an area bounded generally on the north by Lakeside Avenue,
on the east by East 17th Street, on
the south by Superior Avenue, and
on the west by East 12th Street (the
“Erieview II Plan Area”) and (b)
the Erieview I Renewal Project No.
Ohio R-36 (the “Erieview I Development Plan”) in an area bounded
generally on the north by Lakeside
Avenue, on the east by East 14th
Street on the south by Chester
Avenue and on the west by East 6th
Street (the “Erieview I Plan Area”),
which Erieview I Development Plan
and Erieview II Development Plan
(together the “Development Plans”)
remain in force and effect; and
Whereas, the Council of the City,
by Ordinance Nos. 1634-73 and 242860, passed on April 8, 1974, and
December 12, 1960, respectively, as
amended from time to time, designated the Erieview II Plan Area and
the Erieview I Plan Area (collectively, the “Plan Areas”) as blighted areas and encouraged the redevelopment of certain parcels within
the Plan Area in accordance with
the requirements of the Development Plans in order to prevent the
recurrence or spread of conditions of
blight; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1108-87, passed June 8, 1987, as
amended by Ordinance No. 3012-88,
passed February 6, 1989, and Ordinance No. 1374-91, passed June 17,
1991, and Ordinance No. 1713-91,
passed August 21, 1991, the Director
of Community Development entered
into certain agreements (the “Agreements”) with Jacobs, Visconsi &
Jacobs Co. and its assignees (the
“Redeveloper”), relating to the redevelopment of certain real property
in the Plan Areas; and

The City Record
Whereas,
the
Agreements,
as
amended, provide that in the event
of a default under the Agreements,
the City is entitled to repurchase
Parcels 22-A-2, 9-B, and the Additional Properties (collectively, the
“Properties”), as defined in and pursuant to the terms and conditions
set forth in the Agreements; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 168-A-01, passed August 15, 2001,
the City: (1) exercised its rights to
repurchase
the
above-referenced
Properties as provided in the Agreements and purchased the Properties;
and (2) pursuant to Article VIII,
Section 13 of the Ohio Constitution
and the Act, and particularly Section
725.05(C) of the Revised Code, the
City issued Urban Renewal Temporary Bonds captioned $4,200,000 City
of Cleveland, Ohio Taxable Urban
Renewal Notes, Series 2001 (the
“Prior Bonds”), dated November 1,
2001 and maturing on November 1,
2002, in the principal amount of
$4,200,000 for the purpose of paying
costs of carrying out urban renewal
project activities in the Plan Areas
in accordance with the Development
Plans and the Act, including without limitation, direct and indirect
costs of acquiring the Properties,
preparing the Properties for redevelopment, title, appraisal, planning,
engineering and legal costs related
thereto, and paying Financing Costs
(as defined below) related to issuing the Prior Bonds (the “Project”);
and
Whereas, the City now has determined to issue Temporary Bonds to
refund the Prior Bonds and to pay
Financing Costs; and
Whereas, it is necessary to issue
the
Urban
Renewal
Temporary
Refunding Bonds (the (“Temporary
Bonds”) herein authorized and to do
so as soon as possible in order to
timely retire the Prior Bonds and to
take advantage of current market
interest rates thereby preserving the
credit of the City and reducing debt
service payable by the City, and, as
a result, this Ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public property, health, and safety
and for the usual and daily operation of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms elsewhere
defined in this Ordinance including
its preambles, unless the context or
use clearly indicates another or different meaning or intent:
“Book entry form” or “Book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (a) the ownership of
book entry interests in the Temporary Bonds and the principal of
and interest on the Temporary
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (b)
physical Bond certificates in fully
registered form are issued only to
a Depository or its nominee as registered owner, with the physical
Bond certificates “immobilized” in
the custody of the Depository or its
agent. The book entry system is
maintained by and is the responsibility of the Depository and not the
City or the Bond Registrar. The
book entry is the record that identifies, and records the transfer of
the interests of, the owners of ben-

1995

5
eficial (book entry) interests in the
Temporary Bonds.
“Certificate of Award” means the
certificate authorized by Section 3,
to be executed by the Director of
Finance, setting forth and determining those terms or other matters
pertaining to the Temporary Bonds
and their amount, issuance, sale and
delivery as this Ordinance requires
or authorizes to be set forth or
determined in it.
“Continuing
Disclosure
Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 12 which together
with the agreements of the City set
forth in that Section, shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
holders and beneficial owners of the
Temporary Bonds in accordance
with the Rule.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
a letter of credit, an insurance policy, or other credit enhancement or
liquidity device provided to enhance
the security or liquidity of the Temporary Bonds.
“Debt Retirement Fund” means
the Urban Renewal Debt Retirement
Fund established pursuant to Section 10.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of book entry
interests in Temporary Bonds or the
principal of and interest on the Temporary Bonds, and to effect transfers of Temporary Bonds, in book
entry form, and includes and means
initially The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New York, New York.
“Financial Advisor” means either
or both of Government Capital Management
and
Columbia
Equity
Financial Corp.
“Financing Costs” has the meaning provided in Section 133.01 of the
Revised Code.
“Nontax
Revenues”
means
all
moneys of the City which are not
moneys raised by taxation, to the
extent available for the purpose of
paying debt charges on the Temporary Bonds, including, but not limited to the following: (a) grants
from the United States of America
and the State; (b) payments in lieu
of taxes now or hereafter authorized
by State statute; (c) fines and forfeitures which are deposited in the
City’s
General
Fund;
(d)
fees
deposited in the City’s General Fund
for services provided and from properly imposed licenses and permits;
(e) investment earnings on the
City’s General Fund; (f) investment
earnings on other funds of the City
that are credited to the City’s General Fund; (g) proceeds from the
sale of assets which are deposited
in the City’s General Fund; (h) gifts
and donations; and (i) all rental
payments which are deposited in the
City’s General Fund.
“Original Purchaser” means the
original purchasers of the Temporary Bonds: SBK-Brooks Investment
Corp. and A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.
“Proceedings” means collectively,
this Ordinance, the Certificate of
Award, the Continuing Disclosure
Certificate and such other proceedings of the City, including the Temporary Bonds, that provide collectively for, among other things, the

6
rights of holders and beneficial owners of the Temporary Bonds.
“Revenues” means, to the extent
not otherwise pledged for the repayment of the City’s Parking Facilities
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
1996, and to the extent available to
pay debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds, any rentals received under
leases made by the City with
respect to the Project properties, all
proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the Project properties
and any urban renewal service payments collected from any of the Project properties.
“Rule” means SEC Rule 15c2-12.
“State” means the State of Ohio.
“Temporary Bonds” means the
Temporary Bonds authorized by this
Ordinance.
Unless otherwise indicated, any
reference to a Section is a reference
to a Section of this Ordinance.
Section 2. Authorized Principal
Amount and Purpose. This Council
determines that (i) the Project is
consistent with the purposes of Section 13 of Article VIII of the Ohio
Constitution; (ii) the Project is in
furtherance of the purposes of the
Act and will benefit the people of
the City and of the State by creating and preserving jobs and employment opportunities and improving
the economic welfare of the people
of the City and of the State; and
(iii) it is necessary for the City to
issue the Temporary Bonds pursuant
to Section 13 of Article VIII of the
Ohio
Constitution
and
Sections
725.05(C) and 725.07 of the Act in
the principal amount not to exceed
$4,350,000 to retire the Prior Bonds
originally issued and to pay costs of
the Project.
Section 3. Terms of Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall
be dated the date of issuance or
such other date as is designated in
the Certificate of Award but not
later than November 1, 2002. The
Temporary Bonds shall mature on a
date to be determined by the Director of Finance in the Certificate of
Award in accordance with the Director of Finance’s determination of the
best interest of and financial advantages to the City, provided that such
date shall not be later than five
years from the date of issuance of
the Temporary Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall bear interest from
their date at the rate or rates per
annum set forth in the Certificate of
Award, or if any Temporary Bonds
bear interest at a variable rate, at
the rate determined pursuant to the
method set forth in the Certificate
of Award. Interest on the Temporary Bonds shall be payable on the
dates determined by the Director of
Finance in the Certificate of Award
and until the principal amount is
paid or payment is provided for. If
any Temporary Bonds bear interest
at a fixed rate or rates, those rates
shall not exceed eight percent (8%)
per year (computed on the basis of
a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months) and interest shall be
payable not more often than every
six months and at maturity or at
any earlier redemption date. If any
Temporary Bonds bear interest at a
variable rate or rates, those rates
shall not exceed that set forth
below, and interest shall be payable

The City Record
not more often than once a month
and following purchase and at maturity or at any earlier redemption
date.
In the event that the Director of
Finance determines that the City’s
best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Temporary Bonds to be obligations bearing
interest
at
variable
rates,
redeemable by the City without
penalty or premium on interest
adjustment dates, then the Director
of Finance is authorized to so specify in the Certificate of Award. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the Director of Finance
shall specify in the Certificate of
Award the method and procedure by
which the variable rate of interest
to be borne by the variable rate
Temporary Bonds shall be determined, whether by reference to a
market index, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise; provided that
the variable rate Temporary Bonds
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess of sixteen percent (16%) per
annum; provided further that the
maximum interest rate for variable
rate Temporary Bonds during any
period those Temporary Bonds are
held by a provider of a Credit Support Instrument because they could
not be remarketed shall be twentyfive percent (25%). Holders of variable rate Temporary Bonds may be
given the right to tender their variable rate Temporary Bonds for purchase by the City at the times, on
the terms, and subject to the conditions set forth in the Certificate of
Award and any tender agreement;
provided that tender rights shall be
exercisable only at such times as a
Credit Support Instrument is in
place that provides for the payment
of the purchase price payable to the
tendering holder of a variable rate
Temporary Bond. If the Director of
Finance designates any Temporary
Bonds as variable rate Temporary
Bonds, and if the holders of the variable rate Temporary Bonds are to be
entitled to tender the variable rate
Temporary Bonds for purchase, then
the Director of Finance shall also
designate
in
the
Certificate
of
Award for those variable rate Temporary
Bonds
the
provider
or
providers for any Credit Support
Instrument, the tender agent or
agents and the remarketing agent
or agents, which designations shall
be based on the determination of the
Director of Finance that the parties
so designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Temporary Bonds, and from time to time
thereafter so long as the variable
rate Temporary Bonds are outstanding with providers of Credit Support
Instruments, tender agents (which
may be the Registrar), remarketing
agents (which may be the Original
Purchaser), and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates permitting holders the right of
tender, providing for liquidity or

1996

September 11, 2002
credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Temporary Bonds
upon tender for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City of any amounts
drawn under the Credit Support
Instrument.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
the Temporary Bonds, and regardless of the Temporary Bonds bearing interest at variable or fixed
rates, is authorized to contract for a
Credit Support Instrument and to
pay the costs of it from proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds, if the Director of Finance determines that the
Credit
Support
Instrument
will
result in a savings in the cost of
this financing to the City.
Section
4.
Payment
of
Debt
Charges on the Temporary Bonds.
The debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds shall be payable in lawful
money of the United States of America, or in Federal Reserve funds of
the United States of America as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award,
and shall be payable, without deduction for the services of the Registrar as the City’s paying agent. If
agreed to by the Original Purchaser, the Temporary Bonds shall be
subject to redemption without penalty or premium at the option of the
City in whole or in part at any time
prior to maturity as provided in this
Ordinance and the Certificate of
Award.
If fewer than all of the Temporary Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Temporary Bonds of that maturity
to be redeemed, or portions thereof
in amounts of the minimum authorized denomination (as set forth in
Section 8 hereof) or any integral
multiple thereof, shall be made by
lot in a manner determined by the
Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption of Temporary Bonds by
lot
when
Temporary
Bonds
of
denominations greater than the minimum authorized denomination are
then outstanding, each unit of principal thereof in the amount of the
minimum authorized denomination
shall be treated as if it were a separate Temporary Bond of the denomination of the minimum authorized
denomination. If it is determined
that one or more, but not all, of the
units of principal amount in the
amount of the minimum authorized
denomination represented by a Temporary Bonds are to be called for
redemption, then, upon notice of
redemption of such unit or units, the
registered owner of that Temporary
Bond shall surrender the Temporary
Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption price of such
unit or units of principal amount
called for redemption (including,
without
limitation,
the
interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner, of a new Temporary Bond or
Temporary Bonds of any authorized
denomination or denominations in
an
aggregate
principal
amount
equal to the unmatured and unredeemed portion of, and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as, the Temporary Bond surrendered.
The notice of the call for redemp-

September 11, 2002
tion of Temporary Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers, or other distinguishing marks,
the Temporary Bonds or portions
thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least 30
days prior to the date fixed for
redemption, to the registered owner
of each Temporary Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Register (as defined
in Section 5) maintained by the Registrar at the close of business on the
15th day preceding that mailing.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Temporary Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Temporary Bond.
In the event that notice of redemption shall have been given by the
Registrar to the registered owners
as provided above, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, moneys that, in addition to any other
moneys available therefore and held
by the Registrar, will be sufficient
to redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus accrued interest to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Temporary Bonds for
which notice of redemption has been
given. Notice having been mailed in
the manner provided in the preceding paragraph hereof, the Temporary Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall become
due and payable on the redemption
date, and, upon presentation and
surrender thereof at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid at the redemption price, plus
accrued interest to the redemption
date. If moneys for the redemption
of all of the Temporary Bonds and
portions thereof to be redeemed,
together with accrued interest thereon to the redemption date, are held
by the Registrar on the redemption
date, so as to be available therefore
on that date and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail as aforesaid, then from and
after the redemption date those
Bonds and portions thereof called
for redemption shall cease to bear
interest and no longer shall be considered to be outstanding. If those
moneys shall not be so available on
the redemption date, or that notice
shall not have been deposited in the
mail as aforesaid, those Temporary
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All moneys
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Temporary
Bonds shall be held in trust for the
account of the registered owners
thereof and shall be paid to them,
respectively, upon presentation and
surrender
of
those
Temporary
Bonds.
Section 5. Registrar. The Director
of Finance shall designate a bank
or trust company to act as the

The City Record
authenticating
agent,
registrar,
transfer agent and paying agent for
the Temporary Bonds after determining that the payment at that
bank or trust company will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and that proper procedures
and safeguards are available for
that purpose (the “Registrar”). The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, a registrar agreement or
agreements between the City and
the Registrar (the “Registrar Agreement”) in a form consistent with
this Ordinance and as approved by
the Director of Law. In the event
that a trust agreement secures the
Temporary Bonds, as provided in
Section 10, the Registrar Agreement
may be incorporated in such trust
agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Registrar Agreement
from the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
The Temporary Bonds shall be
issued only as fully registered Temporary Bonds. Principal on the Temporary Bonds shall be payable when
due upon presentation and surrender
of the Temporary Bonds at the designated office of the Registrar designated in the Registrar Agreement.
Interest on each Temporary Bond
shall be paid on each interest payment date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Temporary Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing on the Register (defined below
in this Section) at the close of business on the 15th day of the calendar month next preceding that interest payment date or such other date
established in the Certificate of
Award if variable rate Temporary
Bonds are issued. The City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange,
and transfer of Temporary Bonds as
provided in this Section (the “Register”) so long as any of the Temporary Bonds remain outstanding.
Subject to the provisions of this Section, the person in whose name a
Temporary Bond is registered on the
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Temporary
Bond for all purposes of the Proceedings (except as may otherwise
be required with respect to the
City’s continuing disclosure agreement pursuant to the Rule). Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Temporary Bond
shall be made only to or upon the
order of that person; neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Temporary Bond, including interest,
to the extent of the amount or
amounts so paid.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
and so long as the Temporary Bonds
are issued in a book entry system,
principal of and interest on the Temporary Bonds shall be payable in
the manner provided in any agree-

1997

7
ment entered into by the Director of
Finance, in the name and on behalf
of the City, in connection with the
book entry system.
Section 6. Transfer and Exchange
of Certain Temporary Bonds. Temporary Bonds may be exchanged for
Temporary Bonds of any authorized
denomination upon presentation and
surrender at the office designated
by the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person
legally empowered to do so in a
form satisfactory to the Registrar. A
Temporary Bond may be transferred
only on the Register, upon presentation and surrender of the Temporary Bond at the office designated
by the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer, the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate, and
deliver a new Temporary Bond or
Temporary Bonds, of any authorized
denomination or authorized denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Temporary Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the same rate and
maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Temporary Bonds only
after the new Temporary Bonds are
signed by the authorized officers of
the City. In all cases of Temporary
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Temporary Bonds in accordance with the
provisions of the Proceedings. The
exchange or transfer shall be without charge to the owner, except that
the City and Registrar may make a
charge sufficient to reimburse them
for any tax or other governmental
charge required to be paid with
respect to the exchange or transfer.
The City or the Registrar may
require that those charges, if any,
be paid before the procedure is
begun for the exchange or transfer.
All Temporary Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid special obligations of the City, evidencing the
same obligation, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under the
proceedings,
as
the
Temporary
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer. Neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
required to make any exchange or
transfer of a Temporary Bond during the period beginning at the
opening of business 15 days before
the day of the mailing of a notice
of redemption of Temporary Bonds
and ending at the close of business
on the day of such mailing or to
transfer or exchange any Temporary Bond selected for redemption in
whole or in part.
Section 7. Book Entry. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Ordinance, if it is determined
by the Director of Finance to be in
the best interest of and financially
advantageous to the City, the Temporary Bonds may be issued in book
entry form in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.

8
The Temporary Bonds may be
issued to a Depository for use in a
book entry system and, if and as
long as a book entry system is utilized, (i) the Temporary Bonds may
be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Temporary Bond
representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered
owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository; (ii) the book
entry interest owners of Temporary
Bonds in book entry form shall have
no
right
to
receive
Temporary
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership
of book entry interests in book
entry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
participants, and transfers of the
ownership of book entry interests
shall be made only by book entry
by the Depository and its Participants;
and
(iv)
the
Temporary
Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Temporary Bonds for use in
a book entry system, the Director of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Director of Finance, after
making provision for notification of
the book entry interest owners by
the then Depository and any other
arrangements
deemed
necessary,
shall permit withdrawal of the Temporary Bonds from the Depository,
and authenticate and deliver certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance also is
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the Temporary Bonds, after determining
that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of
the form of any such agreement by
the Director of Law.
Section 8. Execution of Temporary
Bonds. Temporary Bonds shall be
signed by the Mayor and the Director of Finance, in the name of the
City and in their official capacities,
provided that either or both of those
signatures may be a facsimile, and
shall bear the seal of the City or a
facsimile thereof; provided that no
Temporary Bond shall be valid or
obligatory for any purpose or shall
be entitled to any security or benefit under the Proceedings unless and
until the certificate of authentication printed on the Temporary Bond
is signed by the Registrar as
authenticating agent, and authentication by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence that the Temporary
Bond so authenticated has been duly
issued, signed and delivered under

The City Record
and is entitled to the security and
benefit of the Proceedings. The certificate of authentication may be
signed by any authorized officer or
employee of the Registrar or by any
other person acting as an agent of
the Registrar and approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. The same person need not sign
the certificate of authentication on
all of the Temporary Bonds.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Temporary Bonds
and
shall
endorse
thereon
his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature. The Temporary Bonds
shall be issued in the denominations
as requested by the Original Purchaser and approved by the Director
of Finance, in conformity with this
Ordinance.
The
entire
principal
amount may be represented by a single bond certificate and may be
issued as fully registered securities
and in book entry or other uncertificated form if it is determined by
the
Director
of
Finance
that
issuance of fully registered securities in that form will facilitate the
sale and delivery of the Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds may
be issued in the authorized denominations of either (a) $100,000 each
or in any denomination that is the
sum of (i) $100,000 and (ii) $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof, and
not exchangeable for other Temporary Bonds in denominations less
than $100,000, or (b) $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, as determined by the Director of Finance in
the Certificate of Award to be in the
best interest of the City. The Temporary Bonds shall not have coupons
attached, shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance and shall express upon
their faces the purpose, in summary
terms, for which they are issued and
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 9. Sale of Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall
be sold at not less than 97% of par
plus accrued interest at private sale
by the Director of Finance to the
Original Purchaser in accordance
with law and the provisions of this
Ordinance. If, in the reasonable
opinion of the Director of Finance,
an underwriter is incapable of fully
performing its duties or meeting its
obligations in its capacity as Original Purchaser with respect to the
Temporary Bonds, the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever action may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser. The Director
of Finance shall sign the Certificate
of Award referred to in this Ordinance, evidencing that sale to the
Original Purchaser, cause the Temporary Bonds to be prepared, and
have the Temporary Bonds signed
and delivered, together with a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Temporary Bonds if requested by the
Original Purchaser, to the Original
Purchaser upon payment of the purchase price. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver, in

1998

September 11, 2002
the name and on behalf of the City,
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser, or representative thereof (the
“Purchase Agreement”), in substantially the form submitted to this
Council with such changes therein
not inconsistent with the terms of
this Ordinance and not substantially adverse to the City as approved
by the Director of Finance and
Director of Law, such approval to be
conclusively evidenced by the execution of the Purchase Agreement
by such officers. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Purchase
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Temporary Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or as may be appropriated
for that purpose. The Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Clerk of
Council, the Director of Law, and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are each authorized and directed to
sign
any
transcript
certificates,
financial statements and other documents and instruments and to take
such actions as are necessary or
appropriate
to
consummate
the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance.
Section 10. Security for the Temporary Bonds. The Temporary Bonds
shall be special obligations of the
City, and the debt charges on the
Temporary Bonds shall be payable
solely from the Revenues and the
Nontax Revenues. The Payment of
debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds is secured by a pledge of and
lien on (i) the Revenues and (ii) the
Nontax Revenues which are on
deposit in the Urban Renewal Debt
Retirement Fund created below. The
Temporary Bonds are not and shall
not be secured by an obligation or
pledge of any money raised by taxation. The Temporary Bonds do not
and shall not represent or constitute
a debt or pledge of the faith and
credit or taxing power of the City,
and the owners thereof have and
shall have no right to have taxes
levied by the City for the payment
of debt charges thereon. The Temporary Bonds shall contain a statement to that effect and to the effect
that
the
Temporary
Bonds
are
payable solely from the Revenues
and the Nontax Revenues and are
not secured by an obligation or
pledge of any money raised by taxation.
The City covenants and agrees
that while the Temporary Bonds are
outstanding, it will appropriate and
maintain Nontax Revenues at such
times and in such amounts as will
be sufficient, together with the Revenues and any other funds available
or to be available for the purpose
(including proceeds of refunding
obligations),
to
pay
the
debt
charges on the Temporary Bonds
and will so restrict other obligations
payable from Nontax Revenues prior
to or on a parity with the Temporary Bonds as will ensure the continuing availability for appropriation of sufficient Nontax Revenues
to pay debt charges when due,
which Nontax Revenues are hereby

September 11, 2002
selected by the City pursuant to Section 725.05(C) of the Revised Code
as moneys that are not raised by
taxation.
There is hereby created by the
City a separate fund or account designated as the “Urban Renewal Debt
Retirement Fund” (the “Debt Retirement Fund”) into which shall be
deposited (i) the Revenues upon
receipt, and (ii) other Nontax Revenues, and any other funds available for the purpose, on or prior to
the date debt charges on the Temporary Bonds are due, in an amount
sufficient to pay those debt charges.
Any Revenues remaining after payment or provision for payment, of
all debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds shall be deposited to the
extent not otherwise pledged or
encumbered, as follows: half in the
Housing Trust Fund (Fund No. 14
SF 027) and half in the Neighborhood Development Investment Fund
(Fund No. 10 SF 501).
Nothing herein shall be construed
as requiring the City to use or apply
to the payment of debt charges on
the Temporary Bonds any funds or
revenues from any source other than
the Revenues and the Nontax Revenues. Nothing herein, however, shall
be deemed to prohibit the City, of its
own volition, from using, to the
extent that it is authorized by law
to do so, any other resources for the
fulfillment of any of the terms, conditions or obligations of this Ordinance or of the Temporary Bonds.
The City will, solely from the proceeds of the Temporary Bonds or
from the Revenues or the Nontax
Revenues, pay or cause to be paid
the debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds on the dates, at the places
and in the manner provided herein
and in the Temporary Bonds. For
that purpose, in each year while the
Temporary Bonds are outstanding,
this Council, after providing for the
payment of debt charges payable on
the City’s general obligation securities in that year from sources available for that purpose, will appropriate Nontax Revenues required to
pay, and for the purpose of paying
the debt charges due in that year on
the Temporary Bonds and any outstanding parity obligations payable
from Nontax Revenues. Further, this
Council will give effect to such
appropriations in all ordinances it
passes thereafter in that year appropriating money for expenditure and
encumbrance and limit the other
appropriations of Nontax Revenues
in that year to the amount available
after deducting the amount required
for the payment of debt charges
payable on the City’s general obligation securities and to pay those
debt charges. The City covenants
that, so long as any of the Temporary Bonds are outstanding, it shall
not issue any additional obligations
payable from the Nontax Revenues
on a parity with the Temporary
Bonds and any outstanding parity
obligations payable from Nontax
Revenues, unless, prior to passage
of the ordinance authorizing such
parity obligations, the Director of
Finance shall have certified to this
Council that the Nontax Revenues
during the preceding calendar year,
adjusted to reflect, if necessary,
changes in the rates or charges

The City Record
resulting in the Nontax Revenues,
aggregate in amount not less than
100% of the highest amount of (a)
debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds to be paid from Nontax Revenues and (b) required payments on
such proposed parity obligations
and any outstanding parity obligations due in any succeeding calendar year.
Each
obligation
of
the
City
required to be undertaken pursuant
to this Ordinance and the Temporary
Bonds is binding upon the City, and
upon each officer or employee of the
City as may from time to time have
the authority under law to take any
action on behalf of the City as may
be necessary to perform all or any
part of such obligation as a duty of
the City and of each of those officers and employees resulting from
an office, trust or station within the
meaning of Section 2731.01 of the
Revised Code, providing for enforcement by writ of mandamus.
In the event that the interest on
the Temporary Bonds is to be provided for from Temporary Bond proceeds, or if in the judgment of the
Director of Finance, after consultation with the Financial Advisor, a
debt service reserve to secure the
Temporary Bonds is in the best
interest of and financially advantageous to the City, the City shall
enter into a trust agreement with
the bank or trust company serving
as Registrar for the Temporary
Bonds and providing for the Debt
Retirement Fund or a debt service
reserve fund, as applicable, to be
held by that bank or trust company,
in its capacity as trustee, and such
fund or funds are hereby authorized.
The Director of Finance shall sign
and deliver, in the name and on
behalf of the City, the trust agreement in a form consistent with this
Ordinance and approved by the
Director of Law. The Mayor and the
Director of Finance and other City
officials, as appropriate, are authorized to take such actions as are
necessary or appropriate to consummate such additional security for
the Temporary Bonds. The City
hereby covenants and agrees to
appropriate annually from the Revenues and the Nontax Revenues into
any such funds amounts sufficient
to maintain the balances required
by the trust agreement and to
restore any deficiency therein.
Section 11. Deposit of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Temporary Bonds are appropriated
and shall be used for the purpose
for which the Temporary Bonds are
being issued. The proceeds from the
sale of the Temporary Bonds (exclusive of amounts to be used to pay
Financing Costs which shall be
deposited in a separate Costs of
Issuance Account) shall be deposited in the Debt Retirement Fund to
be used to refund the Prior Bonds
and, if applicable, to pay interest on
the Temporary Bonds; provided that
any portion of the proceeds of the
Temporary Bonds to be used to
make a required deposit to a debt
service reserve fund shall be paid
into the debt service reserve fund
created pursuant to Section 10. Any
premium not used to pay costs of
issuance
and
accrued
interest

1999

9
received from the sale of the Temporary Bonds shall be deposited in
the Debt Retirement Fund.
Section 12. Disclosure. If, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
after consultation with the Financial
Advisor and the Original Purchaser,
an official statement or other disclosure document is appropriate relating to the initial offering of the Temporary
Bonds,
the
Director
of
Finance, on behalf of the City and in
that officer’s official capacity, is
authorized to (i) cooperate with the
Original Purchaser in the preparation of, and the making of modifications, completions or changes of or
supplements to, such a disclosure
document, (ii) determine, and to certify or otherwise represent, when the
disclosure document is to be deemed
final or is final, (iii) authorize the
use and distribution of that disclosure document and any supplements
thereto in connection with the initial
offering of the Temporary Bonds,
(iv) notwithstanding the requirements of, and as an exception to,
Codified Ordinance 177.01(a), contract with a printer to print the Official Statement, and (v) sign certificates, statements or other documents
in connection with the finality, accuracy, and completeness of that disclosure document.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Temporary Bonds, the City
agrees, as the only obligated person
with
respect
to
the
Temporary
Bonds under the Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information
and
operating
data,
audited financial statements and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of paragraph
(b)(5)(i) of the Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms
of the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including
provisions
for
enforcement, amendment, and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, and if required under
the Rule, a Continuing Disclosure
Certificate or Certificates in conformance with the reporting requirements of the Rule. The agreement
formed collectively, by this paragraph and that Certificate, shall be
the
City’s
continuing
disclosure
agreement for purposes of the Rule,
and its performance shall be subject
to the annual appropriation of any
funds that may be necessary to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.

10
Section 13. Ratings, Insurance,
and Other Credit Enhancement. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance after consultation with the
Financial Advisor, the filing of an
application for a rating on the Temporary Bonds by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies or a
Credit Support Instrument is in the
best interest of, and financially
advantageous to the City, the Director of Finance is authorized to prepare and submit those applications,
to provide to each such agency, company or credit provider such information as may be required for the
purpose. The cost of obtaining each
rating and Credit Support Instrument, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchaser in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds.
Section 14. Interest Rate Swaps,
Hedges and Caps. For the purpose
of achieving the optimal available
debt structure for the Temporary
Bonds, the Director of Finance may,
based on the written advice of the
Financial Advisor, enter into one or
more agreements in connection with
or subsequent to the issuance of the
Temporary Bonds for an interest
rate swap, an interest rate cap or
other such arrangement to lower the
effective interest rate on the obligation to the City or, to hedge the
exposure of the City against fluctuations in prevailing interest rates,
provided, however, that: (i) the debt
structure that is simulated through
the combination of the Temporary
Bonds with any such agreements
shall comply with the restrictions of
this Ordinance on the terms of and
security for the Temporary Bonds
applied to that structure as though
it consisted solely of Temporary
Bonds; (ii) the counterparty to any
swap agreement and the provider of
any interest rate cap shall have a
rating of at least “A” by either
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. or
Standard & Poor’s Corporation; (iii)
no such agreement shall purport to
entitle
the
counterparty
to
the
agreement to payment by the City
from any source other than the
sources which secure the Temporary
Bonds as described in this Ordinance; and (iv) the cost of obtaining any such interest rate cap or
other such arrangement shall have
been determined by the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of the Financial Advisor, to
be justified by the corresponding
benefit to the City and to be commercially reasonably based on then
current
market
conditions.
The
notional amount on which any such
agreement is based shall not be subject to the limitations set forth herein
on
the
maximum
principal
amount of the Temporary Bonds.
Section 15. Covenants. In the
event that the Temporary Bonds
are issued and sold as obligations
bearing interest that is excluded
from
gross
income
for
federal
income tax purposes, the covenants
in this Section 15 shall govern.
However, if the Temporary Bonds
are issued and sold as obligations
bearing interest that is included in
gross income for federal income
tax purposes, the City shall not be
bound by the covenants of this Section with respect to the Temporary
Bonds.

The City Record
Subject to the foregoing, the City
covenants that it will use and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Temporary Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds
under Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the “Code”) or (ii) be
treated other than as bonds to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
and (b) the interest on the Temporary Bonds will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code. The City further
covenants that (a) it will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest on the Temporary Bonds to be
and remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting
for it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing,
(ii) restrict the yield on investment
property, (iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable,
of
property
financed
with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to
assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Temporary Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Temporary Bonds as
the City is permitted to or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting the favorable tax
treatment or status of the Temporary Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Temporary Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Temporary Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all

2000

September 11, 2002
the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Temporary Bonds.
Section 16. Captions, Headings,
and Section References. The captions and headings in this Ordinance
are solely for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit, or
describe the scope or intent of any
Sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, or clauses hereof.
Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 17. Interpretation. Any pro visions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the Temporary
Bonds
authorized
herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall
be applied in any manner as would
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, Temporary Bonds,
certificate of indebtedness, other
obligations, trust indentures, trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City.
Section 18. Satisfaction of Conditions. This Council determines that
all acts and conditions necessary to
be done or performed by the City
or to have been met precedent to
and in the issuing of the Temporary Bonds in order to make them
legal, valid, and binding special
obligations of the City have been
performed and have been met, or
will at the time of deliver of the
Temporary Bonds have been performed and have been met, in regular and due form as required by
law, and that no limitation of
indebtedness
or
taxation, either
statutory
or
constitutional,
is
applicable to the issuance of the
Temporary Bonds.
Section 19. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of
its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council or committees, and that
all deliberations of this Council and
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, all in
compliance with the law.
Section 20. Bond Counsel. That
Bond counsel for the bond issuance
and sale authorized herein shall be
Climaco, Lefkowitz, Peca, Wilcox &
Garofoli Co., L.P.A.
Section 21. Emergency. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an
emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

September 11, 2002
Ord. No. 1710-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract or contracts of a software-update package
for the existing document management system, including implementation,
necessary
server
licenses,
update licenses, and client licenses,
for the Department of Law.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Law is authorized to make one or
more written contracts in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the following items: a software-update package for the existing document management system, which update package shall include implementation,
all necessary server licenses, update
licenses, and client licenses, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies for a gross
price for the Department of Law.
Section 2. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Law may sign all documents with the State of Ohio or any
of its political subdivisions that are
necessary to make the purchases,
and may enter into contract or contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 11 SF 006,
Request No. 100369.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1711-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of one
large format printer/scanning system, for the Division of Printing and
Reproduction,
Department
of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make a
written contract in accordance with
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
each or all of the following items:
one large format printer/scanning
system, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
for a gross price for the Division of
Printing and Reproduction, Department of Finance.

The City Record
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract authorized shall be paid
from Fund No. 11 SF 006, Request
No. 123769.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1712-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of high
capacity paper drill, for the Division
of
Printing
and
Reproduction,
Department of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make a
written contract in accordance with
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
each or all of the following items:
high capacity paper drill, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for a gross
price for the Division of Printing
and Reproduction, Department of
Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract authorized shall be paid
from Fund No. 11 SF 006, Request
No. 123767.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1713-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts
of maintenance for telephones, products and
ancillary equipment, for the Division
of
Information Systems
Services,
Department for a period of one year,
with two options to renew for an
additional one-year consecutive term.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of maintenance for telephones, products and
ancillary equipment, in the approxi-

2001

11
mate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, with two (2)
options exercisable by the Director
of Finance, to renew for an additional one-year consecutive term,
and cancellable upon thirty days
written notice by said Director, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Information Systems Services, Department of Finance. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify thereon the amount of
the
initial
purchase
thereunder,
which purchase, together with all
subsequent purchases, shall be made
on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies pursuant to
a requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 112111)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1714-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract or contracts of City-wide paging and wireless service, for the Division of
Information
Systems
Services,
Department of Finance, for a period
of one year, with two options to
renew for an additional one-year
consecutive term.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written contracts in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the following items:
City-wide paging and
wireless service, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies for a gross price for the
Division of Information Systems Services, Department of Finance, for a
period of one year, with two (2)
options exercisable by the Director
of Finance, to renew for an additional one-year consecutive term,
and cancellable upon thirty days
written notice by said Director.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 70 SF 101,
Request No. 112112.

12
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1715-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of one
high speed envelope press, for the
Division of Printing and Reproduction, Department of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make a
written contract in accordance with
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
each or all of the following items:
one high speed envelope press, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies for a gross
price for the Division of Printing
and Reproduction, Department of
Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract authorized shall be paid
from Fund No. 11 SF 006, Request
No. 123768.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1716-02.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the terms and conditions for the
transfer
of
City-owned
property
located at 20900 Brookpark Road to
the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1089-02,
passed July 17, 2002, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1598-02, passed August
14, 2002, authorized a fee simple
transfer of all or part of a Cityowned property located at 20900
Brookpark Road to the United States
of America, National Aeronautics
and Space Administration; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1598-02,
passed August 14, 2002, included a
provision that Cleveland City Council must approve the terms and conditions of the property transfer; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provi-

The City Record
sions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, or any other ordinance,
this Council authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
enter into a written contract for the
transfer of the property described in
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1089-02,
passed July 17, 2002, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
1598-02,
passed
August 14, 2002, to the United States
of America, National Aeronautics
and Space Administration (“NASA”),
subject to the following terms and
conditions:
A. Prior to the transfer of the
property, the property shall be divided and the City shall retain the following lots, the dimensions of which
shall be determined by the Director
of Port Control:
i) a parcel containing the existing
Federal
Aviation
Administration
RTR antenna facility;
ii) a parcel at the northwest corner of Brookpark Road and relocated Old Grayton Road;
iii) the right-of-way for relocated
Old Grayton Road; and
iv) a remainder parcel located
east of newly relocated Old Grayton
Road and north of the property to
be transferred to NASA.
B. The City shall reserve an easement for the underground utilities
to the existing FAA RTR antenna
facility. NASA shall agree to grant
the City the following easements,
including
temporary
construction
access, across the property:
i)
an
easement
for
utilities
between the existing FAA RTR
antenna facility and a proposed
FAA radar site north of the property;
ii) an easement for a proposed
FAA antenna facility and related
utilities; and
iii) easements for future connections to and use of the existing
storm sewer system on the property.
C. NASA shall use the property
only for the purpose of governmental aeronautical and space research.
D. The deed shall contain an avigation easement granting the City
all necessary rights to use the airspace above the property for aviation purposes.
E. The consideration for the transfer of property authorized in this
ordinance shall be NASA’s transfer
of certain real property known as
the “South 40” to the City for airport
expansion purposes, this Council
expressly finding that the fair market value of the South 40 is not less
than the value of the property to be
transferred under this ordinance.
F. The deed shall include the
right to terminate NASA’s interest in
the property if NASA does not timely cure any violations of the avigation easement or other restrictions,
if NASA uses the property for unauthorized purposes, or if NASA does
not transfer the South 40 property to
the City within a time period to be
agreed upon by the Director of Port
Control and NASA and included in
the deed to the property.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

2002

September 11, 2002
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1717-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the necessity of the emergency upgrade and relocation of the
security checkpoints at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport; and
authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into an agreement
with Continental Airlines Inc. for
the design and installation of the
security checkpoint entrances.
Whereas, the U.S. Department of
Transportation, Transportation Safety Administration has mandated
that
the
security
checkpoint
entrances to the three concourses at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport must be upgraded by November 18, 2002; and
Whereas, the security checkpoint
entrances are currently controlled
and staffed by the Transportation
Safety Administration; and
Whereas, prior to federal control
of these checkpoints, the airlines
configured, controlled and staffed
all of the airport’s security checkpoint entrances; and
Whereas, the airport has not historically configured or controlled
these security entrances and has
limited expertise in designing and
configuring these checkpoints; and
Whereas, the Department of Port
Control has determined that relocating the security checkpoint entrances
to the three concourses will provide
more convenient passenger flow and
increased revenue; and
Whereas, Continental Airlines has
the expertise to complete the design
and installation of the new security
checkpoints within the time frame
mandated by the Transportation
Safety Administration; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the emergency upgrade
and relocation of the security checkpoints at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport is necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of passengers using the airport terminal. Therefore, this Council authorizes the Director of Port
Control to enter into an agreement
with Continental Airlines Inc. for
the
design
and
installation
of
upgraded and relocated security
checkpoint entrances for the three
concourses in the terminal building
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport. The cost of the contract
shall be paid from Fund No. 60 SF
119. (RL 118285).
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.

September 11, 2002
Ord. No. 1718-02.
By Council Member Cimperman
(by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to 1100 Carnegie L.P,
General Partner for the Hilton Garden Inn to encroach into the rightof-way of Webster Avenue S.E. with
a directional sign.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to 1100 Carnegie L.P., 1022
Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, its successors and assigns, for
the construction, use and maintenance of a directional sign which
will encroach into the public rightof-way of Webster Avenue S.E. at
the location described as follows:
ENCROACHMENT AREA/WEBSTER
AVENUE S.E./DIRECTIONAL SIGN
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio at the location described as
follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Webster Avenue S.E. (60.00 feet
wide) at its intersection with the
Easterly line of East 9th Street
(99.00 feet wide);
Thence
Easterly,
along
said
Southerly line of Webster Avenue
S.E. about 9.00 feet to a point;
Thence Northerly, at right angles
to the last described line, about 3.00
feet to a point;
Thence Westerly, and parallel
with the Southerly line of Webster
Avenue S.E. as aforesaid, about 9.00
feet to a point;
Thence Southerly, about 3.00 feet
to the place of beginning.
Section 2. That said directional
sign will be placed within the public right-of-way as aforesaid in Section 1, and will be constructed in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That all other required
permits, including a Building Permit, shall be obtained before said
directional sign is constructed.
Section 3. That nothing in this
ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right,
privilege or permission to use or to
attach or affix any objects to utility poles or other objects.
Section 4. That the Permit herein
authorized shall reserve right of
ingress and egress to the City of
Cleveland, and that said Permit
shall require the Permittee to provide Commercial General Liability
Insurance,
including
Completed
Operations Coverage, and that the
Permittee shall maintain the permitted encroachment area, and that
the Permittee shall pay any applicable taxes and assessments due
and/owing
on
the
permitted
encroachment area.
Section 5. That this permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the

The City Record
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1719-02.
By Council Member Cimperman
(by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to 10th and St. Clair,
LLC to encroach into the right-ofway of West St. Clair Ave. N.W.
Easterly of West 10th Street to
install sheet piling for construction
of their building.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to 10th and St. Clair, LLC, 12107
Mayfield Road, Suite 201, Cleveland,
Ohio
44106,
its
successors
and
assigns, for the construction, use
and maintenance of sheet piling for
the construction of their building on
an
adjacent
parcel,
which
will
encroach into the public right-ofway of West St. Clair Avenue N.W.
Easterly of West 10th Street at the
location described as follows:
ENCROACHMENT AREA/959 WEST
ST. CLAIR AVE. N.W. AND
WEST 10TH ST.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio at the location described as
follows:
Being the Southerly 3.00 feet of
West St. Clair Avenue N.W. (49.50
feet wide), extending Easterly from
the Easterly line of West 10th Street
(50.00 feet wide), a distance of
about 100.00 feet.
Section 2. That said sheet piling
and associated equipment will be
placed within the public right-ofway as aforesaid in Section 1, and
will be constructed in accordance
with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of
Engineering and Construction. That
all other required permits, including
a Building Permit, shall be obtained
before said sheet piling is constructed.
Section 3. That the Permit herein
authorized shall reserve right of
ingress and egress to the City of
Cleveland, and that said Permit
shall require the Permittee to pro-

2003

13
vide Commercial General Liability
Insurance,
including
Completed
Operations Coverage, and that the
Permittee shall maintain the permitted encroachment area, and that
the Permittee shall pay any applicable taxes and assessments due
and/owing
on
the
permitted
encroachment area.
Section 4. That this permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1720-02.
By
Council
Members
Jones,
Sweeney, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into an agreement with the
City of Warrensville Heights in
order for the City of Cleveland to
make the public improvement of
grinding and resurfacing East 190th
Street/Evanston Avenue, including
the installation of ADA ramps.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the City of
Warrensville Heights for the City of
Cleveland
to
make
the
public
improvement of grinding and resurfacing East 190th/Evanston Avenue,
including the installation of ADA
ramps. The agreement shall provide
that
the
City
of
Warrensville
Heights will pay the City of Cleveland for the portion of the improvement which is located in the City of
Warrensville Heights.
Section 2. That the agreement
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain such additional terms and conditions as are
necessary to protect the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

14
Ord. No. 1721-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3 of Ordinance No. 610-01,
passed May 21, 2001, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1255-01, passed June
19, 2001, relating to crack sealing
material.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 610-01, passed May 21,
2001, as amended by Ordinance No.
1255-01, passed June 19, 2001, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchase authorized by this ordinance
may be made through cooperative
agreement using state procedures.
a. The Director of Public Service
is authorized to request authority in
the name of the City of Cleveland
to participate in the Ohio Department of Transportation contracts for
the purchase of machinery, materials, supplies or other articles pursuant
to
Revised
Code
Section
5513.01(B).
b. The Director is authorized to
agree in the name of the City of
Cleveland to be bound by all contract terms and conditions as the
Ohio Department of Transportation
prescribes.
c. The Director is authorized to
agree in the name of the City of
Cleveland to directly pay vendors,
under each such contract of the Ohio
Department of
Transportation
in
which the City participates, for items
it receives pursuant to the contract.
d. The City of Cleveland agrees to
hold the Director of Transportation
and the Ohio Department of Transportation harmless for any claim or
dispute arising out of participation
in a contract pursuant to Revised
Code Section 5513.01(B).
Section 2. That existing Section 3
of Ordinance No. 610-01, passed May
21, 2001, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1255-01, passed June 19, 2001, is
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1722-02.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 613.99 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1695-65,
passed October 18, 1965 relating to
penalty for littering.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Section 613.99 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1695-65, passed October 18, 1965 is hereby amended to
read as follows:
Section 613.99 Penalty
Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The above
fine shall be stated on any sign
posted by the city that prohibits littering.
Section 2. That existing Section
613.99 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1695-65, passed
October 18, 1965 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Safety,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1723-02.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract
with
Boston
Mills
Ski
Resort, Inc. to provide youth ski
lessons for the 2003 ski season, for
the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into contract
with Boston Mills Ski Resort, Inc. to
provide youth ski lessons for the
2003 ski season, in the total sum of
$28,000.00, payable from Fund No. 01700401-638000, Request No. 106791.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1724-02.
By Council Member Cimpeerman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3123.09 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2842-86,
passed June 8, 1987 relating to erection of tents in the Central Business
District.

2004

September 11, 2002
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3123.09 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2842-86, passed June
8, 1987 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 3123.09 Erection of Tents;
Permits
(a) Tents, air supported structures and other temporary structures may be erected for a period
not exceeding thirty (30) days for
religious, educational, recreational,
or similar purposes. A special temporary permit shall be secured for
all such installations.
(b) Notwithstanding division (a)
of this section, tents, air supported
structures
and
other
temporary
structures may be erected in the
Central Business District for a period not exceeding six (6) months for
religious, educational, recreational,
or similar purposes. A special six
(6) month temporary permit shall be
secured for all such installations.
Section 2. That existing Section
3123.09 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 2842-86, passed
June 8, 1987 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Legislation.
Ord. No. 1725-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 929-02,
passed June 10, 2002; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new
Section 3a, relating to the Director
of Community Development entering
into or amending contracts or memoranda of understanding with various public, private or governmental
agencies or entities and City departments
to
implement
Community
Development programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title of Ordinance No. 929-02, passed June 10,
2002, is amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various social service
agencies, Community Development
or local development corporations,
private for profit entities, and various governmental entities and to
enter into or amend memorandums

September 11, 2002
of understanding with various City
of Cleveland departments to implement the City’s Community Development programs and to expend
funds for the operation of programs
administered by the Department of
Community Development.
Section 2. That the existing title
of Ordinance No. 929-02, passed June
10, 2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 92902, passed June 10, 2002, is supplemented by adding new Section 3a to
read as follows:
Section 3a. That, after receiving
the required approval stated in Section 4 of this ordinance, the Director of Community Development is
authorized to enter into or amend
contracts with the State of Ohio,
Cuyahoga County, Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority, Cleveland
Municipal
School
District,
Regional Transit Authority, Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District,
Cleveland
Metroparks,
and
such
other
governmental
entities
as
defined under the Ohio Revised
Code to implement activities and
programs that are eligible under the
Community
Development
Block
Grant Program and are consistent
with the City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1726-02.
By Council Members Jones, Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with SATRAJ, Ltd.
to provide for a ten year sixty percent abatement for certain real property improvements, personal property and inventory as an incentive to
acquire and redevelop the property
located at Block H, Parcel B of the
Cleveland Industrial Park, located in
the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified the area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas,
SATRAJ,
Ltd.
(the
“Enterprise”)
has
proposed
to
acquire and redevelop the property
located at Block H, Parcel B of the
Cleveland Industrial Park, located
in the Cleveland Area Enterprise
Zone; and

The City Record
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement
of
certain
real
property
improvements,
personal
property
and inventory the Enterprise would
be at a competitive disadvantage by
operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and
for the further reason that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, such assistance being immediately necessary
or such jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a ten year sixty percent (60%) abatement for certain
real property improvements, personal property and inventory as an
incentive to acquire and redevelop
the property located at Block H,
Parcel B of the Cleveland Industrial Park, located in the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone; the abatement shall be subject to annual
review of the Tax Incentive Review
Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms set forth in the
Summary contained in File No. 172602-A. The terms of the file notwithstanding, the terms of the tax abatement shall not be amended, nor
shall the tax abatement be assignable or transferrable to any entity,
without the prior legislative authorization by Cleveland City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
set forth in Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve the
agreement and that the agreement
shall contain the terms and provisions as the director deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

2005

15
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1727-02.
By Council Members Jones, Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located in Block H, Parcel B of the
Cleveland
Industrial
Park
to
SATRAJ, Ltd.
Whereas, the Director of Economic Development has requested the
sale of City-owned property no
longer needed for public use and
located in Block H, Parcel B of the
Cleveland Industrial Park; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for
public use:
PARCEL B
3.0252 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Block “H” in the Lee-Seville/Cleveland Outerbelt Industrial Park (Vol.
231, Pg. 42) of part of Original Warrensville Township Lots Nos. 81, 82,
and 103 and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at a Monument Box
with a 3/4" iron pin found at a Point
of Curvature in the centerline of
Johnston Parkway (60 feet wide),
said Monument Box being South 00°27'-00" East a distance of 399.21 feet
from a Monument Box with a Stone
found at the intersection of the centerlines of Velma Avenue (50 feet
wide) and said Johnston Parkway;
Thence South 89°-33'-00" West a
distance of 30.00 feet to a 5/8"
capped rebar set in the Westerly
right-of-way line of Johnston Parkway;
Thence North 00°-27'-00" West
along the Westerly right-of-way line
of Johnston Parkway a distance of
33.39 feet to a 5/8" capped rebar set,
which marks the true place of
beginning
for
the
following
described parcel of land:
Thence South 89°-33'-00" West a
distance of 374.91 feet to a 5/8"
capped rebar set in the Easterly line
of lands now or formerly owned by
N.B. Smith (AFN# 199904210602) and
also the Easterly line of Sublot No.
6 in the Cranbrook Subdivision No.
1 (Vol. 155, Pg. 1);
Thence North 01°-23'-30" West
along the Easterly line of Smith and
the Easterly line of said Cranbrook
Subdivision No. 1, a distance of
220.94 feet to a capped rebar found
at a Northeasterly corner of lands
now or formerly owned by W.
Tilgham (Vol. 13617, Pg. 149) and in
the Easterly line of Sublot No. 2;

The City Record

16
Thence North 49°-42'-48" West
along the Easterly line of said
Tilgham and along the Easterly line
of said Sublot No. 2 a distance of
45.96 feet to a capped rebar found
at the Southeast corner of land now
or formerly owned by C. Starks Jr.
(Vol. 136, Pg. 257) and at the Southeast corner of Sublot No. 1;
Thence North 00°-27'-30" West
along the Easterly line of Starks
and the Easterly line of Sublot No.
1 a distance of 90.00 feet to a 5/8"
iron pin found at the Northeast corner of said Starks and in the
Southerly right-of-way line of Velma
Avenue (50 feet wide);
Thence
North
89°-32'-30"
East
along the Southerly right-of-way
line of Velma Avenue a distance of
363.36 feet to a 5/8" capped rebar set
at a point of curvature;
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, having a
radius of 50.00 feet, an arc length
78.55 feet, a chord bearing of South
45°-27'-30" East and a chord of 70.72
feet, to a 5/8" capped rebar set in
the Westerly right-of-way line of
Johnston Parkway;
Thence
South
00°-27'-00"
East
along the Westerly right-of-way line
of Johnston Parkway a distance of
290.96 feet to the true place of beginning, containing 3.0252 acres of
land, more or less, but subject to all
legal highways and easements of
record, as surveyed by Daniel J.
Cook, Registered Surveyor No. 7179,
of Campbell & Associates Inc. in
December 1999.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described
property
to
SATRAJ, Ltd. at a price not less
than fair market value as determined by the Board of Control.

Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed shall
contain provisions including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control or Director of
Law protecting the parties as their
respective interests require and shall
specifically
contain
a
provision
against the erection of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1728-02.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency ordinance designating the John Edwards House as
a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas,
the
Cleveland
Landmarks Commission (the “Commission”) pursuant to Chapter 161 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, has proposed the
designation of the John Edwards
House as a landmark; and
Whereas, the owner of the John
Edwards House has been properly
notified of the proposed designation
and has consented in writing to the
proposed designation; and

September 11, 2002
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the John
Edwards House as a landmark and
has set forth certain findings of fact
constituting the basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the John Edwards
House, whose street address in the
City of Cleveland is 2822 Woodbridge Avenue, S.W., also known as
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s permanent parcel number 015-10-081, and
the land embracing the site thereof,
which in its entirety is a property
having special character or special
historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City,
State, or the United States, be and
it hereby is designated a landmark
pursuant to Chapter 161 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

Ord. No. 1760-02.
By Council Members Johnson, White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 133.33 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 925-96, passed June 10, 1996, relating to parking fees.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 133.33 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
308-96, passed June 10, 1996, is amended to read as follows:
Section 133.33 Parking Fees
(a) The Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall cause to be collected fees and charges at the following parking
facilities in accordance with the following schedule:
(1)

Willard Park Garage:
A.
First hour or portion thereof
B.
Each additional half hour or portion thereof
C.
Daily maximum rate from 6 A.M. to 11:00 p.m.
D.
Additional overnight charge from 11:00 p.m. to 6 A.M.
E.
General monthly rate
F.1.
Special monthly rate for City employees
F.2.
Special monthly rate for federal, state and
county employees
G.
Special events (flat rate — pay enter)
H.
Charge for lost or stolen key card
I.
Returned check charge
J.
Late payment charge
K.
Early Bird Rate (time to be determined by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties

2006

$2.08
1.16
up to 8.10
up to 8.10
up to 143.52
50.93
64.81
up to 30.00
50.00
15.00
5.00
up to 8.00

September 11, 2002
(2)

(3)

Cleveland Convention Center Garage:
A.
First hour or portion thereof
Each additional half hour or portion thereof
Daily maximum rate from 6 A.M. to 11:00 p.m.
Additional overnight charge from 11:00 p.m. to 6 A.M.
General monthly rate (the number of key cards may
be limited at the discretion of the Commissioners of
the Convention Center and Parking Facilities)

F.
G.
H.
I.
J.

Special events (flat rate — pay enter)
Charge for lost or stolen key card
Returned check charge
Late payment charge
Early Bird Rate (time to be determined by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties

Canal Basin Lot:
A.
Daily rate from 6 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. (flat rate — pay
enter)
B.
General monthly rate (weekdays between 6 A.M. and

D.
E.
F.

17
2.08

B.
C.
D.
E.

C.

(4)

The City Record

6 P.M.)
Special events, weekdays between 6:00 P.M. and 6 A.M.,
weekends and holidays (flat rate — pay enter)
Returned check charge
Late payment charge
Charge for lost or stolen key card

1.16
up to 7.18
up to 7.18

up to 157.41
up to 30.00
50.00
15.00
5.00
up to 8.00

up to 1.85
37.04
up to 10.00
15.00
5.00
50.00

North
A.
B.
C.

Coast Municipal Parking Lot:
Daily rate (flat rate — pay enter)
City of Cleveland employees
General monthly rate — non-City of Cleveland
employees

up to 41.67

D.
E.
F.
G.

Special events (flat rate — pay enter)
Charge for lost or stolen key card
Returned Check Charge
Late Payment Fee

up to 30.00
50.00
15.00
5.00

up to 2.08
no charge

(b) Wherever the schedule contained in division (a) of this section specifies a maximum fee, the fee to be
charged shall be fixed by the Commissioner of Parking Facilities with the consent of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties up to the maximum specified.
(c) Monthly rate customer parking privileges at Willard Park Garage, Cleveland Convention Center Garage,
Canal Basin Lot and North Coast Municipal Parking Lot do not include entry to these garages and lots for special
events held on weekends, holidays or after 6 P.M. on weekdays.
(d) Fees collected from the Willard Park Garage, Canal Basin Lot, North Coast Municipal Parking Lot, shall
be credited to the Division of Parking Facilities Enterprise Fund for general operations. Fees collected from the
Convention Center Garage shall be credited to the Convention Center Enterprise Fund for general operations.
(e) The Commissioner of Parking Facilities is authorized to enter into an agreement with the Commissioner
of the Convention Center for the operations, management and collection of parking fees at the Convention Center
Garage.
(f) The Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall fix and collect such fees and charges as the Commissioner
shall determine at parking facilities not identified in division (a) of this section but under the Commissioner’s
control until such time as the Council and the Board of Control fix fee schedules for such parking facilities.
(g) Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the contrary, the Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall:
(1) Designate ten (10) parking spaces in Willard Garage located as close as practical to the entrance
to City Hall to be assigned by the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to City employees with the
greatest number of years seniority as a City employee:
(2) Designate at least ten (10) parking spaces located either in the North Mall Lot or in Willard Garage
for City employees to park their vehicles at no cost for a maximum of forty-five (45) minutes when required
by their jobs to visit City Hall for a short period of time during the work day; and
(3) Designate a sufficient number of parking spaces located either in the North Mall Lot or in Willard
Garage for City employees who are employed to clean City Hall and who commence work at 3:00 p.m. or later
and work later than the closing of Willard Garage.
Section 2. That existing Section 133.33 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 308-96, passed April 1, 1996, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Parks, Property
and Recreation, Legislation, Finance.

2007

The City Record

18
FIRST READING
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1729-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property north of Detroit
Avenue, east of West 24th Street,
south of the Superior Viaduct and
west of the former Mulberry Street
to a General Retail District and a
PUD Overlay District. (Map Change
No. 2055, Sheet No. 1)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the lands bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the centerline of
West 24th Street at its intersection
with the centerline of the Superior
Viaduct,
N.W.;
thence
southerly
along the centerline of West 24th
Street to its intersection with the
centerline of Detroit Avenue; thence
easterly along the centerline of
Detroit Avenue to its intersection
with the centerline of Mulberry
Street, N.W.; thence northerly along
the centerline of Mulberry Street to
its intersection with the centerline
of the Superior Viaduct, N.W.; thence
westerly along the centerline of
Superior Viaduct to the place of
beginning;
and as outlined in red on the
attached map is hereby changed to
a General Retail District and is designated as a Planned Unit Development (PUD) Overlay District, in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 334 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2055, Sheet No. 1, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That a PUD Project
site plan for the proposed development, known as “Stonebridge Phase
III,” shall be included in File No.
1729-02-A, maintained in the office
of the Clerk of Council and in the
offices of the City Planning Commission.
Section 4. That the PUD Project
depicted in the site plan contained
in the above-referenced file is hereby approved, and no Building Permit shall be issued by the City of
Cleveland for property located within the PUD Overlay District unless
the application conforms with PUD
Project site plan approved by this
ordinance, in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 334 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
Section 5. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1730-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the zoning of properties west of West 20th
Street and north of Abbey Avenue.
(Map Change No. 2057, Sheet No. 1)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows:

Beginning on the centerline of
West 20th Street at its intersection
with the centerline of Abbey Avenue; thence northerly along the centerline of West 20th Street to its
intersection with the centerline of
the vacated Smith Court; thence
westerly along the centerline of the
vacated Smith Court to its intersection with the centerline of West 21st
Place; thence southerly along the
centerline of West 21st Place to its
intersection with the centerline of
Abbey
Avenue;
thence
easterly
along the centerline of Abbey Avenue to the place of beginning,
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same is
hereby changed to a Semi-Industry
District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2057, Sheet No. 1, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the City Planning.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1731-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property at 2323 Lakeside
Avenue and of property north of the
former
ConRail
tracks,
between
East 21st and East 26th Streets.
(Map Change Nos. 2056, Sheet No. 4)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows:
Parcel 1:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot Nos. 4 thru 27, inclusive and
Sublot Nos. 31 and 32 in the William
Case Subdivision of parts of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 140, 141, and
143, and recorded in Volume 2, Page
2 of the Cuyahoga County Map
Records and also parts of Original
Ten Acre Lot Nos. 142 and 143,
together forming a parcel of land
further bounded and described as
follows: Beginning at a lead plug
found on the Northwesterly line of
Lakeside Avenue, N.E., (66 feet
wide), at its intersection with the
Southwesterly line of E. 26th Street,
(99 feet wide); thence S-59 deg. 49'
40" W. long said Northwesterly Line
of Lakeside Avenue, N.E., 1,097.99
feet to an iron pin set at the intersection of said Northwesterly line of
Lakeside Avenue N.E. and the Northeasterly line of E. 22nd Street (40
feet wide); thence N-30 deg. 13' 31"
W. along said Northeasterly line of
E. 22nd Street, 234.75 feet to an iron
pin set at the most Westerly corner
of the aforementioned Sublot No. 31
in the William Case Subdivision,
said point also being in the Southerly line of the CONRAIL Corp. (formerly The Cleveland and Pittsburgh
Railroad
Company)
right-of-way;
thence N-71 deg. 00' 29" E. along
said Southerly line of the CONRAIL
Corp. right-of-way, 881.22 feet to an
iron pin found at an angle point

2008

September 11, 2002
therein; thence N-72 deg. 49' 30" E.
continuing along said Southerly line
of the CONRAIL Corp. right-of-way,
239.74 feet to its intersection with
the aforementioned Southwesterly
line of E. 26th Street; thence S-30
deg. 48' 53" E. along said Southwesterly line of E. 26th Street, 9.96
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways and easements
of record and being according to a
survey dated August 25, 1988, made
by Seymour D. Weiss, Professional
Surveyor No. 4759 of Seymour D.
Weiss & Associates, Inc., Consulting
Engineers and Surveyors.
and as outlined in red on the
attached map is hereby changed to
a General Retail District.
Section 2. That the Height District
of land bounded and described as
follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, being parts of the Original
Ten Acre Lots 137 to 145, both inclusive and part of East 26th Street,
bounded and described, according to
a survey made by Carl Gulla, dated
AUGUST, 1976, designated Parcel
No. 1, as follows: VIZ: Commencing
in the centerline of East 26th Street,
99 feet wide, at its intersection with
the Westerly prolongation of the
centerline of Lakeside Avenue, 99
feet wide; Thence North 32 degrees
22' 45" West along said centerline
of East 26th Street, a distance of
395.37 feet to the principal place of
beginning; Thence North 32 degrees
22' 45" West along said centerline
a distance of 75.19 feet; Thence
South 54 degrees 37' 20" West a distance of 283.39 feet to a point in the
Southwesterly line of said Ten Acre
Lot 143; Thence South 32 degrees 23'
30" East along said mentioned lot, a
distance of 281.66 feet to a point of
curve marked by an iron pin;
Thence Southwesterly along the arc
of a curve to the left a distance of
117.85 feet to a point marked by an
iron pin, said curve having a radius
of 590 feet and a chord which bears
South 50 degrees 09' 20" West 117.65
feet; Thence South 45 degrees 39'
30" West a distance of 84.25 feet to
a point marked by an iron pin;
Thence South 32 degrees 23' 30"
East a distance of 72.62 feet to a
point marked by an iron pin; Thence
South 68 degrees 52' 44" West a distance of 1577.42 feet to a point
marked by an iron pin; Thence
North 32 degrees 20' 50" West a distance of 39.46 feet to a point marked
by an iron pin, said line being parallel (sic) with and distant 244.5
feet by rectangular measurement
Northeasterly from the Southwesterly line of said Ten Acre Lot 137;
Thence North 56 degrees 23' 10"
East a distance of 565.39 feet to a
point marked by an iron pin; Thence
North 54 degrees 27' 4" East a distance of 2180.00 feet to the Northeasterly line of said Ten Acre Lot
145, marked by an iron pin; Thence
South 32 degrees 22' 45" East along
said last mentioned lot line 7.19 feet;
Thence South 46 degrees 00' 43"
West a distance of 727.95 feet to a
point in the centerline of East 26th
Street and being the principal place
of beginning, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways,
and as outlined in green on the
attached map is hereby changed to
a ‘1’ Height District.

The City Record

September 11, 2002
Section 3. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2056, Sheet No. 4, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the City Planning Commission.
Section 4. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1732-02.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An ordinance to change the zoning of properties west of East 105th
Street and south of Ashbury Road to
an RA-2 Townhouse District. (Map
Change Nos. 2058, Sheet No. 8)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

19

Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line
of Ashbury Road at its intersection
with the Westerly line of East 105
Street, said point being also known
as the North Easterly corner of
Sublot Number 11 in the proposed
Benjamin Rose Subdivision of part
of Original Lot Number 385; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line
of East 105 Street and the Easterly line of Sublot Number 11 through
17 in said Subdivision about 315.54
feet to a point about 0.14 feet North
of the Southerly line of said Sublot
Number 17; thence Westerly and
parallel with the Southerly line of
said Sublot about 150 feet to a
point on the Westerly line of said
Sublot Number 17; thence Northerly
along the Westerly line of Sublot
numbers 17 through 11 as aforesaid
about 382.04 feet to the southerly

line of Ashbury Road; thence Easterly along the Southerly line of
Asbury Road to the place of beginning, and including the abutting
portions of East 105th Street and
Ashbury Road to the centerline of
each street,
and as outlined in red on the
attached map is hereby changed to
an RA-2 Townhouse District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2058, Sheet No. 8, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 1733-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution to adopt and declare a Tax Budget for the year 2003, as required by State Law, Chapter
5705 of the Revised Code.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 5705 of the Revised Code, after public hearings
thereon as required by law, does hereby adopt the statements of the year 2003 requirements for the several funds
of the City of Cleveland, as being the budget required by state law to be submitted to the County Budget
Commission which requirements are as follows:

Amount to
be Derived
From Levies
Outside
10-Mill
Limitation
Column II
GENERAL FUND
BOND RETIREMENT FUND
POLICE PENSION FUND
FIRE PENSION FUND
TOTAL

Amount
Approved
By Budget
Commission
Inside 10-Mill
Limitation
Column IV

County Auditor’s
Estimate of Tax Rate
To Be Levied
Inside
Outside
10-Mill
10-Mill
Limit
Limit
Column V
Column VI

$

$
SCHEDULE B
----------

LEVIES OUTSIDE 10 MILL LIMITATION, EXCLUSIVE OF DEBT LEVIES
=================================================================================================
FUND

MAXIMUM RATE
AUTHORIZED TO BE
LEVIED

TAX YEAR
COUNTY AUDITOR’S
ESTIMATE OF
YIELD OF LEVY
(carry to schedule A,
column 3)
=================================================================================================
2009

The City Record

20

September 11, 2002

GENERAL FUND:
Current Expense Levy authorized by City Charter
8.3 mills
effective 11/21/67.
Current Expense Levy authorized by voters on __/__/__,
not to exceed _____years. Auth. under Sect.______,R.C.
Current Expense Levy authorized by voters on __/__/__,
not to exceed _____years. Auth.under Sect.______,R.C.
Current Expense Levy authorized by voters on __/__/__,
not to exceed _____years. Auth. under Sect.______,R.C.
Current Expense Levy authorized by voters on __/__/__,
not to exceed _____years. Auth.under Sect.______,R.C. ------------------------TOTAL GENERAL FUND OUTSIDE 10 M. LIMITATION

8.3 mills
============== ==================================

--------------2000
ACTUAL
GENERAL FUND
LOCAL TAXES
Property Tax
Income Tax
Admission Tax
Exhibition Tax
Video Game Tax
Motor Vehicle Lessor Tax
Parking Tax
Total
LICENSES & PERMITS
Building Licenses and Permits
Other Licenses and Permits
Total
INTERGOVERNMENTAL REVENUE
Local Government Fund
State Cigarette and Liquor Tax
Estate Tax
Excise Tax
Total

FINES AND FORFEITURES
Fines
Cash Bonds
Court Trustee
Court Costs
Criminal Bond Forfeiture
Total
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Sale of Capital Plant
Sale of Recyclable Waste
Refunds
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total

-------------

--------------

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

-------------2003
TAX BUDGET

$

45,131,344
268,786,351
13,361,814
0
54,851
3,551,386
11,053,740
_____________
$ 341,939,486

$

47,842,018
262,720,776
12,236,767
0
51,109
3,065,529
10,011,279
_____________
$ 335,927,478

$

46,559,583
256,826,234
11,425,000
0
45,000
2,450,000
9,800,000
_____________
$ 327,105,817

$

$

7,549,553
1,789,294
_____________
$
9,338,847

$8,003,401.000
883,302
_____________
$
8,886,703

$

6,783,492
819,600
_____________
$
7,603,092

$

$

$

59,264,874
803,195
5,437,957
0
_____________
$
65,506,026

$

59,123,590
773,000
5,500,000
1,386,148
_____________
$
66,782,738

$

59,487,915
957,931
5,186,696
0
_____________
$
65,632,542

SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Misc. City Sales
$
Cable TV-Franchise Fees
Charges for Service
Commissions
Concession Revenue
Rental of City Property
Commercial Waste Collection
Total

-----------------------------------------------------------

46,792,381
251,043,359
10,250,000
0
50,000
2,100,000
9,600,000
____________
$
319,835,740

6,906,300
820,000
____________
$
7,726,300

56,235,147
788,460
4,250,000
924,098
____________
$
62,197,705

502,875
1,480,399
11,649,450
36,310
139,777
680,764
1,687,806
_____________
$
16,177,381

$

167,021
1,723,230
11,894,975
35,825
101,582
726,252
1,381,699
_____________
$
16,030,584

$

2,998
1,698,806
11,781,186
35,975
80,444
708,804
1,340,660
_____________
$
15,648,872

$

$

16,115,686
136,334
2,272
1,588,338
0
_____________
$
17,842,631

$

14,993,766
137,250
2,760
1,633,871
931
_____________
$
16,768,578

$

15,990,298
135,800
2,000
1,676,000
0
_____________
$
17,804,098

$

15,990,298
135,800
2,000
1,632,169
0
____________
$
17,760,267

$

$

$

$

0
0
0
5,428,013
2,519,155
_____________
$
7,947,168

0
2,054
0
18,656,732
1,604,000
_____________
$
20,262,786

2010

0
0
0
13,620,082
1,251,000
_____________
$
14,871,082

2,998
1,500,000
11,781,186
35,975
80,444
708,804
1,340,660
____________
$
15,450,066

0
0
0
3,521,082
1,000,000
____________
$
4,521,082

The City Record

September 11, 2002

2000
ACTUAL

21

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

0

21,843,000

14,000,000

REVENUE TRANSFERS
Revenue Transfers
0
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Damaged City Property
Reimbursement
Expenditure Recoveries
Total
TOTAL

$

140,289
17,591,024
_____________
$
17,731,313
_____________
$ 476,609,367

$

80,125
10,979,720
_____________
$
11,059,845
_____________
$ 474,442,000

$

96,400
21,367,118
_____________
$
21,463,518
_____________
$ 493,122,217

$

92,677
20,370,841
____________
$
20,463,518
____________
$
461,954,678

$ 189,544,649
64,331,109
74,381
1,909,967
2,688,935
1,782,983
1,024,061
165,900
7,201,476
0
_____________
$ 268,723,461

$

204,246,089
65,833,852
112,091
2,362,213
1,921,874
1,526,616
651,379
180,000
8,871,542
0
_____________
$ 285,705,656

$

204,475,280
72,936,227
116,014
2,598,434
1,989,140
1,580,048
674,177
186,300
9,450,420
0
____________
$
294,006,039

$

7,032,071
2,294,410
7,309
442,900
1,210,157
665,950
43,333
0
449,984
0
_____________
$
12,146,114

$

7,104,494
2,127,005
21,244
443,092
1,444,495
804,635
77,246
0
829,531
0
_____________
$
12,851,742

$

7,112,563
2,327,546
21,988
487,401
1,595,052
832,797
79,950
0
$829,069
0
____________
$
13,286,366

$

22,161,785
7,103,736
4,971
2,802,381
2,768,598
1,593,230
289,785
7,061
2,387,204
12,511
_____________
$
39,131,262

$

23,034,866
6,684,967
7,271
3,294,265
2,354,851
807,886
251,233
0
3,270,230
0
_____________
$
39,705,569

$

$

$

$

GENERAL FUND
EXPENDITURES
Security of Persons and Property (Safety)
Salaries and Wages
$ 185,354,294
Employee Benefits
59,377,384
Training and Professional Dues
105,151
Utilities
2,248,078
Contractual Services
2,594,985
Material and Supplies
2,500,156
Maintenance
1,322,352
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
164,315
Inter-Departmental Services
7,814,215
Capital Outlay
0
_____________
Total Security of Persons and Property $ 261,480,929
Public Health Services (Health & Aging)
Salaries and Wages
$
7,406,618
Employee Benefits
2,068,757
Training and Professional Dues
16,487
Utilities
327,125
Contractual Services
1,418,405
Material and Supplies
820,353
Maintenance
56,298
Claims
0
Inter-Departmental Services
621,069
Capital Outlay
0
_____________
Total Public Health Services
$
12,735,113
Leisure Time Activities (Parks, Recreation & Properties)
Salaries and Wages
$
21,816,814
Employee Benefits
6,017,377
Training and Professional Dues
24,719
Utilities
2,754,448
Contractual Services
2,278,518
Material and Supplies
1,846,117
Maintenance
189,478
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
9,625
Inter-departmental Services
2,611,146
Capital Outlay
25,000
_____________
Total Leisure Time Activities
$
37,573,243
Community Environment (Service)
Salaries and Wages
Employee Benefits
Training and Professional Dues
Utilities
Contractual Services
Material and Supplies
Maintenance
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
Inter-departmental Services
Capital Outlay
Total Community Environment

$

15,216,018
4,802,475
26,180
450,172
9,181,118
288,015
77,302
1,039
3,531,468
5,555
_____________
$
33,579,342

17,580,143
6,981,382
10,302
932,759
8,485,628
445,648
130,246
4,111
2,692,293
0
_____________
$
37,262,512

2011

18,531,205
5,920,133
17,089
929,382
7,950,594
315,477
88,501
3,500
3,637,141
0
_____________
$
37,393,022

23,060,985
7,355,102
7,525
3,623,692
2,437,271
836,162
260,026
0
3,509,624
0
____________
$
41,090,388

18,552,182
6,953,662
17,687
1,022,320
8,228,865
326,519
91,598
3,623
3,954,610
0
____________
$
39,151,065

The City Record

22

2000
ACTUAL
Legal/Financial Administration
Salaries and Wages
Employee Benefits
Training and Professional Dues
Contractual Services
Material and Supplies
Maintenance
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
Inter-departmental Services
Total Legal/Financial Administration

$

7,890,714
1,801,806
136,627
2,503,843
188,989
303,362
5,974,206
361,116
_____________
$
19,160,663

Urban Planning & Development (CD, ED, Harbors)
Salaries and Wages
$
8,623,034
Employee Benefits
2,341,058
Training and Professional Dues
82,205
Utilities
0
Contractual Services
1,870,698
Material and Supplies
146,979
Maintenance
82,166
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
1,177
Inter-departmental Services
441,061
Capital Outlay
8,586
_____________
Total Urban Planning & Development
$
13,596,965
General Government
Salaries and Wages
Employee Benefits
Training and Professional Dues
Utilities
Contractual Services
Material and Supplies
Maintenance
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
Inter-departmental Services

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

$

8,665,742
1,930,836
130,351
2,052,926
141,450
299,204
1,251,442
411,582
_____________
$
14,883,533

$

10,475,916
2,580,552
165,417
3,193,870
193,735
347,000
820,000
822,855
_____________
$
18,599,345

$

10,487,823
2,762,280
171,207
3,305,655
200,516
359,145
848,700
803,847
____________
$
18,939,173

$

12,582,376
3,361,786
59,667
7,414
1,199,254
121,195
54,258
706
365,686
0
_____________
$
17,752,342

$

9,034,245
2,502,393
49,000
4,000
404,910
89,633
65,607
6,000
516,907
0
_____________
$
12,672,695

$

9,730,901
3,309,020
68,777
3,379
379,886
110,927
75,514
6,211
467,721
0
____________
$
14,152,336

$

23,435,784
5,793,123
203,166
0
5,253,709
668,785
30,109
78
1,107,832
_____________
$
36,492,585

$

24,788,143
6,778,982
179,554
0
5,995,616
763,847
33,871
1,000
1,099,099
_____________
$
39,640,112

$

29,411,696
7,605,325
204,124
0
5,652,233
623,171
73,242
15,650
1,518,534
_____________
$
45,103,975

31,242,571
8,140,698
211,268
0
6,379,083
644,982
75,805
16,198
1,596,428
____________
$
48,307,034

$

$

$

Revenues over/(under) Expenditures

24,951,926
250,360
9,959,923
5,892,000
0
0
0
4,500
_____________
$
41,058,709
_____________
$ 493,090,713
_____________
$
31,504

$

_____________
56,206,445
_____________
$ 470,825,484
_____________
$
5,783,917

0
256,059
11,848,093
7,056,703
0
0
0
39,401,879
_____________
$
58,562,734
_____________
$ 488,102,070
_____________
$ (13,660,070)

24,589,728
259,123
10,955,915
6,098,220
0
0
0
4,635
____________
$
41,907,621
____________
$
510,840,021
____________
$ (48,885,342)

Decertifications

$

$ (9,779,000)

$

$

Beginning Unencumbered Balance

$
3,660,000
_____________

$
22,543,917
_____________

$

(895,153)
_____________

$

33,351
____________

$
22,543,917
_____________
_____________

$
(895,153)
_____________
_____________

$
33,351
_____________
_____________

$

(48,851,992)
____________
____________

$

$

$

$

Total General Government
Non-Departmental
Transfers (Interfund Subsidies)
Training and Professional Dues
Utilities
Contractual Services
Material and Supplies
Maintenance
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
Inter-departmental Services
Total Other Uses of Funds
TOTAL EXPENDITURES

Estimated Ending Unencumbered
Fund Balance

$

September 11, 2002

39,464,914
309,779
9,599,302
6,711,515
119,134
938
863

$

13,100,000

897,000

LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I Personnel
II Other
Total Legislative Branch

4,700,175
2,733,250
1,966,925
_____________
$
4,700,175

5,425,663
3,179,224
2,246,439
_____________
$
5,425,663

2012

5,625,575
3,834,677
1,790,898
_____________
$
5,625,575

6,060,636
3,896,867
2,163,769
____________
$
6,060,636

The City Record

September 11, 2002

2000
ACTUAL

23

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

MUNICIPAL COURT
Judicial Division
I Personnel
II Other

$

Clerks Division
I Personnel
II Other
Housing Division
I Personnel
II Other
Total Municipal Court

14,553,137
12,825,416
1,727,720

$

7,858,806
5,748,961
2,109,845

16,147,108
14,058,100
2,089,008

$

8,567,294
6,350,543
2,216,751

17,923,412
15,668,298
2,255,114

$

9,441,809
7,334,958
2,106,851

19,858,766
17,347,033
2,511,733
10,024,585
7,838,311
2,186,274

1,936,524
1,842,911
93,613
_____________
$
24,348,466

2,216,229
2,083,540
132,689
_____________
$
26,930,631

2,796,897
2,579,175
217,722
_____________
$
30,162,118

2,831,255
2,600,609
230,646
____________
$
32,714,606

$

1,610,958
1,362,766
248,192

$

1,398,763
1,160,915
237,848

$

2,587,231
2,311,846
275,385

$

2,639,651
2,345,133
294,518

$

3,805,998
3,229,725
576,272

$

3,924,288
3,348,101
576,187

$

3,869,985
3,395,511
474,474

$

3,950,342
3,451,860
498,482

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
Office of the Mayor
I Personnel
II Other
Public Safety
Public Safety Administration
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Police
I Personnel
II Other

162,996,717
152,334,618
10,662,099

170,324,395
160,295,138
10,029,257

181,307,898
171,135,385
10,172,513

185,269,383
174,484,681
10,784,701

Division of Fire
I Personnel
II Other

73,743,482
70,454,366
3,289,116

75,758,616
72,797,817
2,960,799

80,694,456
77,576,548
3,117,908

84,384,446
81,041,431
3,343,015

Division of Emergency
Medical Services
I Personnel
II Other

16,692,538
15,403,212
1,289,326

17,958,799
16,769,423
1,189,376

18,888,454
17,161,441
1,727,013

19,437,597
17,612,074
1,825,523

Division of Dog Pound
I Personnel
II Other
Total Public Safety
Community Relations Board
I Personnel
II Other

664,865
569,638
95,226
_____________
$ 257,903,599

757,367
665,278
92,089
_____________
$ 268,723,465

944,863
811,056
133,807
_____________
$ 285,705,656

964,272
821,461
142,811
____________
$
294,006,039

$

$

$

951,478
841,784
109,694

$

980,947
860,097
120,849

847,581
604,718
242,863

875,823
790,788
85,035

DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
Consumer Affairs
I Personnel and Related Expenses
II Other Expenses

$

847,581
604,718
242,863

$

0
0
0

$

279,775
218,075
61,700

$

290,679
216,924
73,755

$

428,794
410,107
18,687

$

407,334
387,577
19,757

$

488,268
455,418
32,850

$

493,121
459,867
33,254

Public Service
Public Service Administration
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Architecture
I Personnel
II Other

570,953
538,228
32,725

651,856
629,547
22,309

760,660
720,928
39,732

767,699
728,376
39,323

Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal
I Personnel
II Other

27,597,718
14,437,658
13,160,060

27,397,641
15,835,458
11,562,183

26,946,768
15,235,904
11,710,864

28,415,716
16,071,864
12,343,852

Division of Engineering and
Construction
I Personnel
II Other

4,981,877
4,632,501
349,377

5,093,557
4,781,983
311,574

5,331,812
4,895,907
435,905

5,506,402
5,054,937
451,465

2013

The City Record

24

2000
ACTUAL
Division of Traffic Engineering
I Personnel
II Other
Total Public Service

September 11, 2002

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

3,577,331
2,740,119
837,212
_____________
$
37,156,673

3,712,126
2,926,961
785,165
_____________
$
37,262,514

3,865,513
3,143,181
722,332
_____________
$
37,393,021

3,968,127
3,190,800
777,327
____________
$
39,151,065

$

$

$

$

Parks, Recreation and Properties
Parks, Recreation, and
Properties Admin.
I Personnel
II Other

743,647
571,562
172,085

Division of Research, Planning,
and Dev.
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Recreation
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Parking Facilities
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Property Management
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Park Maintenance
and Properties
I Personnel
II Other
Total Parks, Recreation and
Properties
Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I Personnel
II Other

718,508
525,104
193,404

842,441
635,171
207,270

866,750
651,046
215,704

691,825
624,035
67,790

683,035
604,575
78,460

751,558
655,559
95,999

768,583
670,872
97,711

11,772,487
8,772,895
2,999,592

11,900,535
9,088,965
2,811,570

13,058,358
9,850,661
3,207,697

13,520,714
10,087,518
3,433,195

683,701
649,826
33,876

735,580
700,871
34,709

842,740
784,545
58,195

864,438
801,654
62,784

10,929,571
8,386,199
2,543,372

11,291,284
8,933,479
2,357,805

10,451,422
8,402,825
2,048,597

10,844,164
8,641,824
2,202,339

12,752,012
8,829,674
3,922,338
_____________

13,802,325
9,412,527
4,389,798
_____________

13,759,050
9,391,072
4,367,978
_____________

14,225,739
9,563,173
4,662,566
____________

$

37,573,243

$

39,131,267

$

39,705,569

$

41,090,388

$

976
976
0

$

0
0
0

$

0
0
0

$

0
0
0

$

263,648
263,648

$

437,452
437,452

$

179,068
179,068

$

165,261
165,261

Urban Planning & Development
Community Development
Director’s Office
I Personnel
Division of Administrative Services
I Personnel
II Other

1,368,348
1,368,348

1,615,220
1,334,648
280,572

641,257
548,143
93,114

993,338
814,537
178,801

Division of Building and Housing
I Personnel
II Other

8,970,549
6,934,782
2,035,767

10,644,546
10,166,276
478,270

9,373,513
8,609,303
764,210

9,984,963
9,286,016
698,947

957,049
957,049

2,144,442
2,144,442

589,368
589,368

492,722
492,722

Division of Neighborhood Services
I Personnel
Division of Neighborhood Development
I Personnel
II Other
Subtotal Community Development
Regulatory Boards & Commissions
Landmarks Commission
I Personnel
II Other
Bd. of Bldg. Standards and Appeals
I Personnel
II Other

1,022,775
823,634
199,141
_____________
$
12,582,369

1,812,938
1,612,712
200,226
_____________
$
16,654,598

497,439
297,439
200,000
_____________
$
11,280,645

1,098,868
967,004
131,864
____________
$
12,735,152

$

$

$

$

100,869
94,729
6,139
89,176
72,483
16,693

101,760
98,037
3,723
83,880
73,574
10,306

2014

156,679
142,212
14,467
101,128
83,565
17,563

157,208
143,126
14,082
103,178
84,752
18,425

The City Record

September 11, 2002

2000
ACTUAL
Board of Zoning Appeals
I Personnel
II Other
Bd. of Examiners of Plumbers
and Elect.
I Personnel
II Other
Fair Campaign Finance Commission
II Other

25

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

251,145
232,261
18,884

248,075
229,073
19,002

249,763
229,904
19,859

257,285
237,162
20,122

78,278
75,453
2,825

79,400
77,297
2,103

106,726
101,914
4,812

112,047
107,278
4,769

0
0
_____________
$
519,467

1,285
1,285
_____________
$
514,400

9,852
9,852
_____________
$
624,148

10,197
10,197
____________
$
639,914

$

1,014,595
968,165
46,431

$

1,097,748
1,048,596
49,152

$

1,392,050
1,313,317
78,733

$

1,417,184
1,340,111
77,073

Office of Equal Opportunity
I Personnel
II Other

$

509,374
464,928
44,446

$

506,884
470,907
35,977

$

624,859
566,882
57,977

$

644,920
577,388
67,533

City Planning Commission
I Personnel
II Other

$

1,328,077
1,263,754
64,323

$

1,285,509
1,230,658
54,851

$

1,338,965
1,226,509
112,456

$

1,358,187
1,236,938
121,249

Port Control-Harbor Development
I Personnel
II Other

$

Total Regulatory Boards
Economic Development
I Personnel
II Other

Total Urban Planning & Development
Public Health
Health Administration
I Personnel
II Other

0
0
0
_____________
$
15,953,883

$

0
0
0
_____________
$
20,059,139

$

0
0
0
_____________
$
15,260,667

$

$

$

$

$

877,678
741,159
136,519

827,283
775,687
51,596

911,536
797,851
113,685

0
0
0
____________
$
16,795,358

916,277
800,812
115,465

Division of Correction
I Personnel
II Other

5,862,678
4,400,304
1,462,374

5,720,535
4,534,029
1,186,506

5,660,389
4,293,795
1,366,594

5,869,573
4,444,544
1,425,029

Division of Health
I Personnel
II Other

3,448,525
2,204,409
1,244,116

3,367,354
2,186,511
1,180,843

3,774,646
2,519,384
1,255,262

3,853,350
2,545,179
1,308,171

Division of The Environment
I Personnel
II Other
Total Public Health
Aging
Aging
I Personnel
II Other
SUPPORT FUNCTIONS
Financial & Legal Administration
Finance Department
Director’s Office
I Personnel
II Other

2,276,769
1,923,620
353,149
_____________
$
12,465,650

1,968,746
1,633,258
335,488
_____________
$
11,883,918

2,066,354
1,285,719
780,635
_____________
$
12,412,925

2,187,960
1,298,522
889,438
____________
$
12,827,161

$

269,462
205,883
63,579

$

262,194
196,995
65,199

$

438,817
334,750
104,067

$

459,205
351,053
108,152

$

377,789
345,082
32,707

$

329,555
294,331
35,224

$

527,740
455,343
72,397

$

540,737
463,554
77,183

Division of Accounts
I Personnel
II Other

1,387,832
876,984
510,847

934,455
887,010
47,445

1,725,728
1,120,679
605,049

1,753,847
1,134,580
619,267

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I Personnel
II Other

1,073,856
891,134
182,722

1,112,622
942,958
169,664

1,383,618
1,119,976
263,642

1,406,412
1,136,477
269,934

470,281
402,360
67,922

505,465
429,802
75,663

645,230
530,777
114,453

656,249
538,527
117,723

Division of Treasury
I Personnel
II Other

2015

The City Record

26

2000
ACTUAL

September 11, 2002

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I Personnel
II Other

556,557
466,268
90,290

548,060
487,270
60,790

716,392
601,965
114,427

720,289
603,442
116,848

Bureau of Internal Audit
I Personnel
II Other

606,280
441,137
165,142

745,393
519,915
225,478

1,327,068
732,901
594,167

1,349,148
740,845
608,304

Division of Financial Reporting
and Control
I Personnel
II Other
Total Finance Department
Office of Budget and Mgmt.Budget Admin.
I Personnel
II Other

1,280,296
854,059
426,237
_____________
$
5,752,891

1,528,284
1,153,381
374,903
_____________
$
5,703,834

2,429,654
1,449,808
979,846
_____________
$
8,755,430

2,465,492
1,465,964
999,528
____________
$
8,892,175

$

$

$

$

Law
I Personnel
II Other
Total Finance & Legal
Administration

660,977
620,642
40,335

12,746,795
4,794,854
7,951,941
_____________

663,333
618,876
44,457

677,011
641,051
35,960

8,516,370
5,259,057
3,257,313
_____________

9,166,906
6,403,970
2,762,936
_____________

684,203
648,815
35,388
9,362,795
6,517,900
2,844,895
____________

$

19,160,663

$

14,883,537

$

18,599,347

$

18,939,173

Personnel
I Personnel
II Other

$

1,637,892
1,122,924
514,967

$

1,476,246
1,120,572
355,674

$

1,819,131
1,165,786
653,345

$

1,858,041
1,172,236
685,805

Civil Service Commission
I Personnel
II Other

989,617
620,504
369,113
_____________
$
2,627,509

1,226,195
643,897
582,298
_____________
$
2,702,441

1,090,695
711,436
379,259
_____________
$
2,909,826

1,119,453
719,324
400,129
____________
$
2,977,494

County Auditor Deductions
II Other

$

$

$

$

Other Administrative
II Other
Total NonDepartmental

16,095,000
16,095,000
_____________
$
16,741,531

16,114,909
16,114,909
_____________
$
16,882,364

14,914,783
14,914,783
_____________
$
16,106,783

16,084,173
16,084,173
____________
$
17,317,893

TOTAL SUPPORT FUNCTIONS

$

$

$

$

PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

Total Personnel Administration
NONDEPARTMENTAL

SUBSIDIES TO OTHER FUNDS

TOTAL GENERAL FUND
EXPENDITURES
Excess (deficiency) of
Revenues over Expenditures
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

646,531
646,531

38,529,702
39,464,914

767,455
767,455

34,468,342
41,680,370

_____________

_____________

$ 470,825,484
_____________

$ 488,102,070
_____________

1,192,000
1,192,000

37,615,956
24,951,926

493,090,714
_____________

5,783,917

(13,660,070)

31,503

13,100,000

(9,779,000)

897,000

3,660,000
_____________
$
22,543,917
_____________

22,543,917
_____________
$
(895,153)
_____________

2016

(895,153)
_____________
$
33,350
_____________

39,234,560
24,589,728

_____________
$

1,233,720
1,233,720

____________
$

510,840,021
____________
(48,885,343)

33,350
____________
$ (48,851,993)
____________

The City Record

September 11, 2002

2000
ACTUAL

27

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND GROUP RESTRICTED INCOME TAX FUND
REVENUE
LOCAL TAXES
City Income Tax
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures
Excess (deficiency) of
Revenues over Expenditures

$
30,806,000
_____________
$
30,806,000

$
32,838,000
_____________
$
32,838,000

$
30,166,637
_____________
$
30,166,637

30,980,117
____________
$
30,980,117

$

400,904
_____________
$
400,904
_____________
$
31,206,904
_____________

$

548,000
_____________
$
548,000
_____________
$
33,386,000
_____________

$
400,303
_____________
$
400,303
_____________
$
30,566,940
_____________

$

400,303
____________
$
400,303
____________
$
31,380,420
____________

$
38,259,952
_____________
$
38,259,952
_____________

$
33,902,000
_____________
$
33,902,000
_____________

$
30,566,940
_____________
$
30,566,940
_____________

$

$

$

$

$

Decertifications

(7,053,048)
0

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance

5,534,479
_____________
$ (1,518,569)
_____________
_____________

Ending Balance

(516,000)
586,655

(1,518,569)
_____________
$ (1,447,914)
_____________
_____________

0

$

31,380,420
____________
$
31,380,420
____________
(0)

1,447,914

(1,447,914)
_____________
$
0
_____________
_____________

0
____________
$
(0)
____________
____________

STREET CONSTRUCTION MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
REVENUES
LICENSES & PERMITS
Other Licenses & Permits
Total Source
INTERGOVERNMENTAL REVENUE
Gasoline Excise Tax
Motor Vehicle License Tax
Total Source

$

100
_____________
$
100

$
0
_____________
$
0

$
0
_____________
$
0

0
____________
$
0

$

$

$

6,380,000
5,220,000
_____________
$
11,600,000

$

6,380,000
5,220,000
____________
$
11,600,000

$

$

1,700,000
0
_____________
$
1,700,000

1,679,116
0
____________
$
1,679,116

$

6,018,192
4,992,994
_____________
$
11,011,186

6,458,538
5,145,875
_____________
$
11,604,413

$

SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Miscellaneous City Sales
Charges for Service
Commissions
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from Other Funds
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Damaged City Property
Reimbursement
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues

$

0
1,784,095
0
_____________
$
1,784,095

6,925
1,726,338
0
_____________
$
1,733,263

$

18,611
_____________
$
18,611

$

164,770
_____________
$
164,770

$
165,000
_____________
$
165,000

20,884
____________
$
20,884

$

6,536,450
_____________
$
6,536,450

$

5,226,395
_____________
$
5,226,395

$
6,383,085
_____________
$
6,383,085

$

7,156,815
____________
$
7,156,815

$

$

$

$

4,436
5,449,562
_____________
$
5,453,998
_____________
$
24,804,440

$

0
7,638,482
_____________
$
7,638,482
_____________
$
26,367,323

2017

4,687
5,183,913
_____________
$
5,188,600
_____________
$
25,036,685

5,000
5,183,600
____________
$
5,188,600
____________
$
25,645,415

The City Record

28

2000
ACTUAL

September 11, 2002

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

STREET CONSTRUCTION MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

$

13,366,240
11,577,972
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
24,944,212
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
(139,773)
Decertifications
98,000

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance

(239,000)
_____________
$
(280,773)
_____________
_____________

Ending Balance

$

14,297,718
12,520,604
_____________
$
26,818,322
_____________

15,196,515
9,840,170
_____________
$
25,036,685
_____________

15,419,524
10,225,891
____________
$
25,645,415
____________

$

$

$

(450,999)

(280,773)
_____________
$
(731,772)
_____________
_____________

$

0

(731,772)
_____________
$
(731,772)
_____________
_____________

$

0

(731,772)
____________
$
(731,772)
____________
____________

SCHOOLS RECREATION AND CULTURAL ACTIVITIES FUND
REVENUES
REVENUE TRANSFERS
Revenue from other funds
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
II Other Operating Costs

$

2,000,000
_____________
$
2,000,000

$

2,000,000
_____________
$
2,000,000

$

2,000,000
_____________
$
2,000,000

2,000,000
____________
$
2,000,000

$

36,677
_____________
$
36,677
_____________
$
2,036,677

$

15,000
_____________
$
15,000
_____________
$
2,015,000

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
2,000,000

$

0
____________
$
0
____________
$
2,000,000

$

$

2,000,000
_____________
$
2,000,000
_____________

$

2,000,000
_____________
$
2,000,000
_____________

$

$

$

$

4,000,000
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
4,000,000
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$ (1,963,323)
Decertifications
323

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

2,000,000
_____________
$
37,000
_____________
_____________

15,000

36,677
_____________
$
51,677
_____________
_____________

0

$

2,000,000
____________
$
2,000,000
____________
0

51,502
_____________
$
51,502
_____________
_____________

51,502
____________
$
51,502
____________
____________

$

DEBT SERVICE FUND
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Sales and Charges for Service
$
Total Source
REVENUE TRANSFERS
Revenue from Other Funds
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from Other Funds
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

0
____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$
0
_____________
$
0

$

0
____________
$
0

$

366,814
_____________
$
366,814

$

390,195
_____________
$
390,195

$

547,695
_____________
$
547,695

$

539,498
____________
$
539,498

$

$

$

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
366,814

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
390,195

2018

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
547,695

0
____________
$
0
____________
$
539,498

The City Record

September 11, 2002

2000
ACTUAL

29

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

DEBT SERVICE FUND
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

$

Total Expenditures
Excess (deficiency) of
Revenues over Expenditures
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance

66,305
312,729
_____________
$
379,035
_____________

66,761
387,180
_____________
$
453,941
_____________

94,364
429,921
_____________
$
524,285
_____________

$

$

$

$

$

(12,221)

75,967
_____________
$
63,746
_____________

Ending Balance

$

(63,746)

63,746
_____________
$
0
_____________

$

23,410

0
_____________
$
23,410
_____________

94,812
444,686
____________
$
539,498
____________
0
0

23,410
____________
$
23,410
____________

UNVOTED - TAX SUPPORTED OBLIGATIONS
REVENUES
LOCAL TAXES
Property Tax
Total Source
INTERGOVERNMENTAL REVENUE
Grant Revenue
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Interest Income
Revenue from Visitors Bureau
Total Source
REVENUE TRANSFERS
Revenue from Bond Funds
State Issue 2
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from Other Funds
Total Source
Total Revenues

EXPENDITURES
II Other Operating Costs

$
22,907,411
_____________
$
22,907,411

$
24,320,908
_____________
$
24,320,908

$
24,245,875
_____________
$
24,245,875

24,488,334
____________
$
24,488,334

$

364,317
_____________
$
364,317

$

754,555
_____________
$
754,555

$
237,120
_____________
$
237,120

$

250,000
____________
$
250,000

$

384,070
0
_____________
$
384,070

$

$

$

_____________
$
390,015

294,395
0
_____________
$
294,395

275,000
0
____________
$
275,000

$

97,908
0
_____________
$
97,908

$

$

$

_____________
$
0

134,000
0
_____________
$
134,000

0
0
____________
$
0

$

12,650,000
_____________
$
12,650,000
_____________
$
36,403,706

$
13,750,000
_____________
$
13,750,000
_____________
$
39,215,478

$
15,000,000
_____________
$
15,000,000
_____________
$
39,911,390

$

$

$
39,958,441
_____________
$
39,958,441
_____________

$
39,978,519
_____________
$
39,978,519
_____________

$

38,584,776
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
38,584,776
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
(2,181,070)

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

3,697,925
_____________
$
1,516,855
_____________

390,015

0

(742,963)

1,516,855
_____________
$
773,892
_____________

$

17,450,000
____________
$
17,450,000
____________
$
42,463,334

38,394,331
____________
$
38,394,331
____________

(67,129)

4,069,003

773,892
_____________
$
706,763
_____________

706,763
____________
$
4,775,766
____________

$

$

$

_____________
$

_____________
$

$

STADIUM BOND FUND
REVENUES
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Proceeds from Sale of Debt
Revenue Transfers
Interest Income
Total Source

$

0
0
0
107
_____________
$
0

2019

____________

The City Record

30

2000
ACTUAL
REVENUE TRANSFERS
Revenue from Bond Funds

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

Total Source

$
_____________
$

Total Revenues

_____________
$
0

$

$

$

$

$

$

0
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
0
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
107

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

2,233
_____________
$
2,340
_____________
_____________

$
_____________
$

2003
TAX BUDGET

0
_____________
$
107

EXPENDITURES
II Other Operating Costs

$

September 11, 2002

_____________

$
____________
$

_____________

____________

0
_____________
$
_____________

$

_____________
$
_____________
$

$

$

0

2,340
_____________
$
2,340
_____________
_____________

0

2,340
_____________
$
2,340
_____________
_____________

0
____________

$
____________
0

2,340
____________
$
2,340
____________
____________

SUBORDINATED INCOME TAX BOND FUND
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Principal Payment
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from Other Funds
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$

39,743
0
_____________
$
39,743

$

$

$

_____________
$
30,000

0
0
_____________
$
0

$

4,670,000
_____________
$
4,670,000
_____________
$
4,709,743

$
5,005,000
_____________
$
5,005,000
_____________
$
5,035,000

$
4,700,000
_____________
$
4,700,000
_____________
$
4,700,000

$

$
4,713,290
_____________
$
4,713,290
_____________

$
4,415,000
_____________
$
4,415,000
_____________
(363,000)

$
4,700,000
_____________
$
4,700,000
_____________

$

Decertifications
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

(3,546)

1,324,957
_____________
$
1,321,411
_____________
_____________

30,000

620,000

1,321,411
_____________
$
1,578,411
_____________
_____________

0
0
____________
$
0

4,700,000
____________
$
4,700,000
____________
$
4,700,000

4,700,000
____________
$
4,700,000
____________

0

1,578,411
_____________
$
1,578,411
_____________
_____________

0

1,578,411
____________
$
1,578,411
____________
____________

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
UTILITIES GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Vending Machine Concession
$
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Interest Income
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues

2,766
_____________
$
2,766

$

5,588
_____________
$
5,588

$
0
_____________
$
0

$

$

12,231
_____________
$
12,231

$
2,419,556
_____________
$
2,419,556

$
2,084,000
_____________
$
2,084,000

$

$
3,043,335
_____________
$
3,043,335
_____________
$
3,058,332

$
597,005
_____________
$
597,005
_____________
$
3,022,149

$
1,047,100
_____________
$
1,047,100
_____________
$
3,131,100

$

2020

2,830
____________
$
2,830

13,553
____________
$
13,553

3,114,717
____________
$
3,114,717
____________
$
3,131,100

The City Record

September 11, 2002

2000
ACTUAL

31

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

UTILITIES ADMINISTRATION
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Division

$

741,525
380,011
_____________
$
1,121,536

$

682,619
262,207
_____________
$
944,826

$

775,886
271,214
_____________
$
1,047,100

$

790,144
279,318
____________
$
1,069,462

$

UTILITIES FISCAL CONTROL
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

1,524,359
115,803
_____________
Total Division
$
1,640,162
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
2,761,698
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
296,634
Decertifications
356

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

$

305,217
_____________
$
602,207
_____________

$

1,674,510
92,871
_____________
$
1,767,381
_____________
$
2,712,207
_____________

1,922,307
239,081
_____________
$
2,161,388
_____________
$
3,208,488
_____________

$

$

$

$

309,942
0

602,207
_____________
$
912,149
_____________

(77,388)
0

1,942,873
243,709
____________
$
2,186,582
____________
$
3,256,044
____________
(124,944)

874,637
_____________
$
797,249
_____________

797,249
____________
$
672,305
____________

$

RADIO COMMUNICATION
REVENUES
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Interest Income
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source

$
20,756
_____________
$
20,756

$
46,750
_____________
$
46,750

$
42,024
_____________
$
42,024

30,828
____________
$
30,828

$

$
1,213,654
_____________
$
1,213,654

$
2,069,834
_____________
$
2,069,834

$

975,485
_____________
$
975,485

Transfer in

Total Revenues
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

0

$

_____________
996,241

36,109
1,582,928
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
1,619,038
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
(622,797)
Decertifications
52,309

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

$

900,089
_____________
$
329,601
_____________

0

2,019,518
____________
$
2,019,518

452,887

0

_____________
$
1,260,404

_____________
$
2,564,745

$

$

$

$

____________
2,050,346

41,051
1,490,520
_____________
$
1,531,571
_____________

45,741
1,938,380
_____________
$
1,984,121
_____________

46,753
2,003,594
____________
$
2,050,346
____________

$

$

$

(271,167)

329,601
_____________
$
58,434
_____________

580,624

0

(580,624)
_____________
$
0
_____________

0
____________
$
0
____________

$

191,750,128
0
_____________
$ 191,750,128

$

181,502,600
0
____________
$
181,502,600

$
18,929,872
_____________
$
18,929,872
_____________
$ 210,680,000

$

DIVISION OF WATER
WATER GENERAL OPERATIONS
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Water Sales
$
Water-Other Operating Revenues
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Interest Income
Total Source
Total Revenues

201,357,647
0
_____________
$ 201,357,647

$ 212,022,428

$

$

18,147,536
_____________
$
18,147,536
_____________
$ 219,505,183

_____________
$ 212,022,428

21,120,834
_____________
$
21,120,834
_____________
$ 233,143,262

2021

29,177,400
____________
$
29,177,400
____________
$
210,680,000

The City Record

32

2000
ACTUAL
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

56,698,873
152,653,646
_____________
Total Expenditures
$ 209,352,519
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
10,214,168
Decertifications
8,180,353

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

$

77,596,372
_____________
$
95,929,389
_____________

September 11, 2002

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

$

2003
TAX BUDGET

$

61,827,431
185,576,196
_____________
$ 247,403,627
_____________

64,489,095
153,510,905
_____________
$ 218,000,000
_____________

66,535,677
157,386,913
____________
$
223,922,590
____________

$ (14,260,365)

$

$

95,929,389
_____________
$
81,669,024
_____________

70,911,268
_____________
$
63,591,268
_____________

(7,320,000)

$

(13,242,590)

63,591,268
____________
$
50,348,678
____________

DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
WATER POLLUTION GENERAL OPERATIONS
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Water Pollution Control Sales
$
18,091,578
_____________
Total Source
$
18,091,578
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Sale of City Assets
Interest Income
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

$
18,623,268
_____________
$
18,623,268

$
18,801,000
_____________
$
18,801,000

20,201,000
____________
$
20,201,000

0
1,500,905
_____________
$
1,500,905
_____________
$
19,592,483

$

$

$

2,298,308
_____________
$
2,298,308
_____________
$
20,921,576

1,400,000
_____________
$
1,400,000
_____________
$
20,201,000

1,470,000
____________
$
1,470,000
____________
$
21,671,000

$

$

7,317,080
14,414,158
_____________
$
21,731,238
_____________

$

7,911,547
13,379,920
_____________
$
21,291,467
_____________

$

8,138,345
14,595,565
____________
$
22,733,910
____________

$

$

$

$

6,659,547
13,556,460
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
20,216,007
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
(623,523)
Decertifications
(1,210,435)

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

8,862,225
_____________
$
7,028,267
_____________

(809,662)

7,028,267
_____________
$
6,218,605
_____________

(1,090,467)

7,010,243
_____________
$
5,919,776
_____________

$

(2,532,910)

5,919,776
____________
$
3,386,866
____________

CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER GENERAL OPERATIONS
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
C.P.P. Sales
$
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

134,118,111
_____________
$ 134,118,111

$ 124,275,056
_____________
$ 124,275,056

126,827,000
_____________
$ 126,827,000

142,593,987
____________
$
142,593,987

$

$

$

$

0
2,497,915
_____________
$
2,497,915
_____________
$ 136,616,027

$

21,708,623
109,481,927
_____________
Total Expenditures
$ 131,190,551
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
5,425,476
Decertifications
1,466,188

2,762,200

_____________
2,762,200
_____________
$ 127,037,256

$

3,000,000

_____________
3,000,000
_____________
$ 129,827,000

$

2,138,333

____________
2,138,333
____________
$
144,732,320

$

$

$

$

22,727,561
110,142,442
_____________
$ 132,870,003
_____________

$

24,225,318
105,601,682
_____________
$ 129,827,000
_____________

$

24,946,594
115,962,304
____________
$
140,908,898
____________

$ (5,832,747)

$

$

2022

0

3,823,422

The City Record

September 11, 2002

2000
ACTUAL
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

24,294,551
_____________
$
31,186,215
_____________
_____________

33

2001
ACTUAL

31,186,215
_____________
$
25,353,468
_____________
_____________

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

14,301,281
_____________
$
14,301,281
_____________
_____________

14,301,281
____________
$
18,124,703
____________
____________

$
(767,853)
_____________
$
(767,853)

$
2,417,739
_____________
$
2,417,739

$

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
AIRPORT GENERAL OPERATIONS
REVENUES
INTERGOVERNMENTAL REVENUE
Grant Revenue
Total Source

$

767,853
_____________
$
767,853

SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICES
Charges for Service
$
Airport Landing Fees
Airport Space Rentals
Airport Ground Rentals
Airport Concession Revenue
Airport Utility Sales
Airport Customs Fees
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Sales of Capital Plant
Sale of City Assets
Miscellaneous Revenue
Small Claims
Interest Income
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Damaged City Property
Reimbursement

13,077
32,491,965
13,893,158
12,065,538
21,252,401
3,554,764
643,965
_____________
$
83,914,868

$

11,164
27,738,225
11,860,518
10,300,288
18,143,066
3,034,683
549,750
_____________
$
71,637,694

$

15,741
39,110,581
16,723,195
14,523,289
25,581,517
4,278,869
775,141
_____________
$ 101,008,333

$

$

0
0
3,021,230
0
2,130,601
_____________
$
5,151,831

$

$

$

2,152,390
_____________
$
6,231,255

0
0
5,748,141
0
3,033,255
_____________
$
8,781,396

$

$

$

$

EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures
Excess (deficiency) of
Revenues over
Expenditures
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

2,417,739
____________
$
2,417,739

107,529

4,078,865

19,575

1,185,175

15,741
39,110,581
16,723,195
14,523,289
25,581,517
4,278,869
775,141
____________
$
101,008,333

5,748,141
0
3,033,255
____________
$
8,781,396

_____________

_____________

_____________

$
107,529
_____________
$
89,942,081

$
19,575
_____________
$
77,120,671

$
1,185,175
_____________
$ 113,392,643

$

$

$

1,185,175
____________

1,185,175
____________
$
113,392,643

18,048,218
74,769,975
_____________
$
92,818,193
_____________

$

19,321,727
77,423,490
_____________
$
96,745,217
_____________

$

22,345,605
86,043,963
_____________
$ 108,389,568
_____________

22,731,617
88,095,386
____________
$
110,827,002
____________

$

$ (19,624,546)

$

$

53,615
_____________
$ (19,570,931)
_____________
_____________

(4,833,984)
_____________
$
169,091
_____________
_____________

169,091
____________
$
2,734,732
____________
____________

$

$

(2,876,112)
2,829,727

100,000
_____________
$
53,615
_____________
_____________

5,003,075

2,565,641

AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND
REVENUES
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
Total Revenues

$

0
0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
0

$

0

_____________
$
_____________
$
0

2023

60,000

_____________
$
60,000
_____________
$
60,000

____________
60,000
____________
$
60,000

$

The City Record

34

2000
ACTUAL
EXPENDITURES
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures
Excess (deficiency) of
Revenues over
Expenditures
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

September 11, 2002

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

$
13,872
_____________
$
13,872
_____________

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________

$

$

$

$

$

(13,872)
0

106,233
128,802
_____________
$
221,163
_____________
_____________

0

221,163
_____________
$
221,163
_____________
_____________

60,000

0
____________
$
0
____________

60,000

(332,887)
_____________
$
(272,887)
_____________
_____________

(272,887)
____________
$
(212,887)
____________
____________

$

DIVISION OF CEMETERIES
CEMETERIES GENERAL OPERATIONS
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICES
Cemetery Fees
$
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Sale of City Assets
Endowment Income
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from Other Funds
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

2,167,669
_____________
$
2,167,669

$

1,652,530
_____________
$
1,652,530

$

0
256,898
_____________
$
256,898
_____________

$

$

495,200
_____________
$
495,200
_____________

497,500
_____________
$
497,500
_____________

2,470,182
____________
$
2,470,182
0
0
$
0
497,500
____________
$
497,500
____________

$

$

$

$

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
2,424,566

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
2,147,730

$
_____________
$
2,967,682

(401,718)
____________
$
(401,718)
____________
$
2,565,964

$

$

$

$

1,597,614
601,961
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
2,199,576
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
224,990
Decertifications
569

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

2,470,182
_____________
$
2,470,182

866,064
_____________
$
1,091,623
_____________
_____________

_____________

1,673,707
543,616
_____________
$
2,217,323
_____________

1,838,651
582,550
_____________
$
2,421,201
_____________

1,896,121
620,014
____________
$
2,516,135
____________

$

$

$

(69,593)

1,091,623
_____________
$
1,022,030
_____________
_____________

546,481

49,829

(596,311)
_____________
$
(49,830)
_____________
_____________

(49,830)
____________
$
(1)
____________
____________

$

1,342,407
713,379
_____________
$
2,055,786

$

1,436,577
763,423
_____________
$
2,200,000

$

$

$

$

GOLF COURSES
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICES
Charges for Service
$
1,285,642
Concession Revenue
683,213
_____________
Total Source
$
1,968,855
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
Total Revenues

$

49,721
41,118
_____________
$
90,839
_____________
$
2,059,243

(34,167)
86,127
_____________
$
51,960
_____________
$
2,107,746

2024

349,206

_____________
$
349,206
_____________
$
2,549,206

1,436,577
763,423
____________
$
2,200,000

349,206

____________
349,206
____________
$
2,549,206
$

The City Record

September 11, 2002

2000
ACTUAL
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

838,754
1,384,730
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
2,223,485
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
(163,792)
Decertifications
501,194

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

$

1,188,773
_____________
$
1,526,175
_____________
_____________

35

2001
ACTUAL

$

2002
BUDGET

428,305
1,294,004
_____________
$
1,722,309
_____________

1,109,701
1,138,128
_____________
$
2,247,829
_____________

1,128,272
1,583,154
____________
$
2,711,426
____________

$

$

$

385,437

1,526,175
_____________
$
1,911,612
_____________
_____________

$

2003
TAX BUDGET

301,377

$

(162,220)

1,904,309
_____________
$
2,205,686
_____________
_____________

2,205,686
____________
$
2,043,466
____________
____________

$
366,178
_____________
$
366,178

$
357,867
_____________
$
357,867

$

$

$

$

MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS
REVENUES
LOCAL TAXES
Parking Tax
Total Source

$

507,001
_____________
$
507,001

SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICES
Charges for Service
$
Concession Revenue
Rental of City Property
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
REVENUE TRANSFERS
Revenue from General Fund
Revenue from Bond Funds
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Damaged City Property
Reimbursement
Expenditure Recoveries

2,874,846
0
180,000
_____________
$
3,054,846

_____________
$
5,026,743

5,218,273
0
326,727
_____________
$
5,545,000

$

11,585
895,653
_____________
$
907,238

$

11,078
856,428
_____________
$
867,506

$

8,262
638,767
_____________
$
647,029

$

$

0
2,077,189
_____________
$
2,077,189

$

$

$

1,904,152
_____________
$
1,904,152

2,000,000
_____________
$
2,000,000

2,000,000
____________
$
2,000,000

$

$

$

$

602,032
_____________
$
602,032

480,350
_____________
$
480,350

480,350
____________
$
480,350

_____________
8,766,611

_____________
$
9,030,246

$

$

$

Total Source

1,104
772,685
_____________
$
773,789

Total Revenues

_____________
$
7,320,063

$

$

$

EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

Excess (deficiency) of
Revenues over Expenditures
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

5,026,743

357,867
____________
$
357,867

5,218,273
0
326,727
____________
$
5,545,000

8,262
638,767
____________
$
647,029

____________
9,030,246

749,888
7,314,241
_____________
$
8,064,129
_____________

809,516
5,894,059
_____________
$
6,703,575
_____________

958,919
7,390,629
_____________
$
8,349,548
_____________

976,509
7,443,655
____________
$
8,420,165
____________

$

$

$

$

(744,066)
2,121,854

1,401,362
_____________
$
2,779,150
_____________
_____________

2,063,036

2,779,150
_____________
$
4,842,186
_____________
_____________

2025

680,698

3,333,576
_____________
$
4,014,274
_____________
_____________

610,081

4,014,274
____________
$
4,624,355
____________
____________

The City Record

36

2000
ACTUAL

September 11, 2002

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

CLEVELAND CONVENTION CENTER
REVENUES
LOCAL TAXES
Hotel Tax
Total Source

$

3,881,796
_____________
$
3,881,796

SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Charges for Service
$
Commissions
Rental of City Property
Convention Center Ticket Receipts
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Sale of City Assets
Refunds
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from Other Funds
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Damaged City Property
Reimbursement
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

Ending Balance

$
3,700,000
_____________
$
3,700,000

$

3,700,000
____________
$
3,700,000

$

$

44
225,172
88,191
1,903,832
_____________
$
2,217,239

$

204747+7
500,000
1,963,515
_____________
$
2,463,515

44
228,499
89,494
1,931,962
_____________
$
2,250,000

44
228,499
89,494
1,931,962
____________
$
2,250,000

$

$

$

$

0
0
0
40,032
_____________
$
40,032

11,969
_____________
$
107,445

50,000
_____________
$
50,000

50,000
____________
$
50,000

$
174,111
_____________
$
174,111

$
64,508
_____________
$
64,508

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

$

95,476

0
____________
$
0

3,623
360,436
_____________
$
364,059
_____________
$
6,677,237

$

$

$

459,821
_____________
$
459,821
_____________
$
6,539,630

365,000
_____________
$
365,000
_____________
$
6,365,000

365,000
____________
$
365,000
____________
$
6,365,000

$

$

2,473,875
3,862,003
_____________
$
6,335,878
_____________

$

1,709,217
4,760,253
_____________
$
6,469,470
_____________

$

$

$

$

2,063,515
4,036,821
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
6,100,336
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
576,901
Decertifications
0

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance

$
3,444,341
_____________
$
3,444,341

95,000
_____________
$
671,901
_____________
_____________

203,752

671,901
_____________
$
875,653
_____________
_____________

(104,470)

1,782,011
5,088,988
____________
$
6,870,999
____________
(505,999)

1,141,946
_____________
$
1,037,476
_____________
_____________

1,037,476
____________
$
531,477
____________
____________

CLEVELAND WEST SIDE MARKET
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Rental of City Property
$
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues

887,929
_____________
$
887,929

$
578,545
_____________
$
578,545

$
1,316,494
_____________
$
1,316,494

$

$

8,148
16,083
_____________
$
24,231

$

15,419
18,670
_____________
$
34,089

$

21,107
24,043
_____________
$
45,150

$

$

$
6,980
_____________
$
6,980
_____________
$
619,614

$
22,830
_____________
$
22,830
_____________
$
1,384,474

$

15,531
_____________
$
15,531
_____________
$
927,691

2026

1,316,494
____________
$
1,316,494

21,107
24,043
____________
$
45,150

22,830
____________
$
22,830
____________
$
1,384,474

The City Record

September 11, 2002

2000
ACTUAL
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

296,769
843,782
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
1,140,550
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
(212,859)
Decertifications
(8,416)

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

$

482,616
_____________
$
261,341
_____________
_____________

37

2001
ACTUAL

$

2002
BUDGET

345,580
754,477
_____________
$
1,100,057
_____________

397,194
760,836
_____________
$
1,158,030
_____________

411,453
797,321
____________
$
1,208,774
____________

$

$

$

(480,443)

261,341
_____________
$
(219,102)
_____________
_____________

$

2003
TAX BUDGET

226,444

$

175,700

(212,638)
_____________
$
13,806
_____________
_____________

13,806
____________
$
189,506
____________
____________

CLEVELAND EAST SIDE MARKET
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Charges for Services
$

54,653
_____________
$
54,653
_____________

$

27,384
_____________
$
27,384
_____________

$
78,400
_____________
$
78,400
_____________

$

Total Source

4,892
_____________
$
4,892

8,355
_____________
$
8,355

0
_____________
$
0

0
____________
$
0

Total Revenues

$

$

$

$

Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Interest Income

EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

59,545

27,159
30,828
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
57,987
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
1,558
Decertifications
13,199

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

$

268,800
_____________
$
283,558
_____________
_____________

35,739

$

78,400

78,400
____________
$
78,400
____________

78,400

30,359
34,102
_____________
$
64,461
_____________

$

54,511
17,670
_____________
$
72,181
_____________

55,162
18,288
____________
$
73,450
____________

$

$

$

(28,722)

283,558
_____________
$
254,836
_____________
_____________

6,219

$

4,950

232,266
_____________
$
238,485
_____________
_____________

238,485
____________
$
243,435
____________
____________

$

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND GROUP
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Commissions
$
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Interest Income
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

100,972
_____________
$
100,972

$
279,372
_____________
$
279,372

$
300,000
_____________
$
300,000

448,248
____________
$
448,248

$

0
_____________
$
0

$
7,137
_____________
$
7,137

$
0
_____________
$
0

$

0
____________
$
0

$

6,141,887
_____________
$
6,141,887
_____________
$
6,242,859

$

3,321,845
_____________
$
3,321,845
_____________
$
3,608,354

$

5,593,857
_____________
$
5,593,857
_____________
$
5,893,857

$

5,410,703
____________
$
5,410,703
____________
$
5,858,951

$

$

$

$

287,063
4,727,494
_____________
$
5,014,558
_____________

329,725
4,185,475
_____________
$
4,515,200
_____________

2027

271,329
4,821,575
_____________
$
5,092,904
_____________

284,842
5,274,620
____________
$
5,559,461
____________

The City Record

38

2000
ACTUAL
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

1,228,302
(1,307,452)

79,150
_____________
$
0
_____________
_____________

September 11, 2002

2001
ACTUAL

$

(906,846)

0
_____________
$
(906,846)
_____________
_____________

2002
BUDGET

$

800,953

2003
TAX BUDGET

$

299,490

(800,443)
_____________
$
510
_____________
_____________

510
____________
$
300,000
____________
____________

$

$

801,238

$

____________
801,238

INFORMATION SYSTEMS SERVICES
REVENUES
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from other funds
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues

$

2,902
0
_____________
$
2,902

$

3,042

$

$
0
_____________
$
0

$
_____________
$

$

801,238
_____________
$
801,238

$

$
118,296
_____________
$
118,296
_____________
$
121,197

$
1,565,011
_____________
$
1,565,011
_____________
$
1,568,053

$
3,103,810
_____________
$
3,103,810
_____________
$
3,905,048

$

1,595,705
____________
$
1,595,705
____________
$
2,396,943

$

$

_____________
3,042

$

0
_____________
0

0
____________
$
0

INFORMATION SYSTEMS SERVICES
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

1,298,996
584,520
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
1,883,516
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$ (1,762,319)
Decertifications
1,758,707

Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

$

8,455
_____________
$
4,843
_____________
_____________

$

1,666,479
541,275
_____________
$
2,207,754
_____________

1,764,963
1,014,599
_____________
$
2,779,562
_____________

1,673,049
726,324
____________
$
2,399,373
____________

$

$

$

(2,430)

$

84,917
____________
82,487
____________
____________

(639,701)

4,843
_____________
$
(634,858)
_____________
_____________

1,125,486

(1,040,569)
_____________
$
84,917
_____________
_____________

MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Miscellaneous City Sales
$
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Sale of City Assets
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Recovery of past deficits
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Damaged City Property
Reimbursement
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues

0
_____________
$
0

$
14,030
_____________
$
14,030

$
0
_____________
$
0

$

0
____________
$
0

$

0
49,926
49,427
_____________
$
99,353

$

$

$

153,525
163,146
_____________
$
316,671

72,000
78,000
_____________
$
150,000

0
0
____________
$
0

$
0
_____________
$
0

$
0
_____________
$
0

$
974,807
_____________
$
974,807

$

$

$

$

$

14,109,847
_____________
$
14,109,847
_____________
$
14,440,548

18,267,446
_____________
$
18,267,446
_____________
$
19,392,253

17,035,849
____________
$
17,035,849
____________
$
18,160,656

0
16,155,797
_____________
$
16,155,797
_____________
$
16,255,150

2028

1,124,807
____________
$
1,124,807

The City Record

September 11, 2002

2000
ACTUAL
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

5,074,296
12,428,757
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
17,053,053
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$ (1,247,903)
Decertifications
(1,410,987)

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

$

2,733,314
_____________
$
74,424
_____________
_____________

39

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

$

2003
TAX BUDGET

$

5,056,282
11,388,532
_____________
$
16,444,814
_____________

5,524,276
12,155,621
_____________
$
17,679,897
_____________

5,646,034
12,600,301
____________
$
18,246,335
____________

$ (2,004,266)

$

$

74,424
_____________
$ (1,929,842)
_____________
_____________

(1,626,677)
_____________
$
85,679
_____________
_____________

85,679
____________
$
0
____________
____________

$

1,712,356

$

(85,679)

PRINTING AND REPRODUCTION
REVENUES
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues

EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

$

1,390
10,601
_____________
$
11,991

$

2,614
28,089
_____________
$
30,703

$

0
0
_____________
$
0

0
0
____________
$
0

$

1,284,712
_____________
$
1,284,712
_____________
$
1,296,703

$

1,411,094
_____________
$
1,411,094
_____________
$
1,441,797

$
1,238,964
_____________
$
1,238,964
_____________
$
1,238,964

$

809,332
____________
$
809,332
____________
$
809,332

$

$

524,604
536,111
_____________
$
1,060,715
_____________

$

559,951
678,105
_____________
$
1,238,056
_____________

$

567,599
702,136
____________
$
1,269,736
____________

$

$

$

500,792
697,009
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
1,197,802
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
98,901
Decertifications
8,716

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

72,771
_____________
$
180,388
_____________
_____________

381,082

180,388
_____________
$
561,470
_____________
_____________

908

(460,404)

459,496
_____________
$
460,404
_____________
_____________

460,404
____________
$
0
____________
____________

$

CITY STOREROOM & WAREHOUSE
CITY STOREROOM AND WAREHOUSE
REVENUES
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

$
654,818
_____________
$
654,818
_____________
$
654,818

$
668,812
_____________
$
668,812
_____________
$
668,812

$
889,956
_____________
$
889,956
_____________
$
889,956

897,022
____________
$
897,022
____________
$
897,022

$

$

$

$

48,330
678,835
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
727,165
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
(72,347)
Decertifications
41,473

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

35,878
_____________
$
5,004
_____________
_____________

34,313
701,415
_____________
$
735,728
_____________

33,918
747,914
_____________
$
781,832
_____________

63,388
833,707
____________
$
897,095
____________

$

$

$

(66,916)

5,004
_____________
$
(61,912)
_____________
_____________

2029

108,124

(108,051)
_____________
$
73
_____________
_____________

(73)

73
____________
$
0
____________
____________

The City Record

40

2000
ACTUAL

September 11, 2002

2001
ACTUAL

2002
BUDGET

2003
TAX BUDGET

CENTRAL COLLECTION AGENCY
REVENUES
LOCAL TAXES
City Income Tax
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

$
0
_____________
$
0

$
4,060,000
_____________
$
4,060,000

$
6,000,000
_____________
$
6,000,000

$

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

137,230
_____________
$
137,230

$
140,000
_____________
$
140,000

$

$

6,722
_____________
$
6,722
_____________
$
6,722

$
1,753,181
_____________
$
1,753,181
_____________
$
5,950,411

$
1,809,000
_____________
$
1,809,000
_____________
$
7,949,000

$

1,809,000
____________
$
1,809,000
____________
$
7,949,000

$

$

$

$

3,520,253
2,106,665
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
5,626,918
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$ (5,620,195)
Decertifications
7,295,868

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance

177,172
_____________
$
1,852,845
_____________
_____________

Ending Balance

6,000,000
____________
$
6,000,000

140,000
____________
$
140,000

3,895,313
2,211,458
_____________
$
6,106,771
_____________

4,761,922
3,038,932
_____________
$
7,800,854
_____________

4,814,892
3,123,136
____________
$
7,938,029
____________

$

$

$

(156,360)

1,852,845
_____________
$
1,696,485
_____________
_____________

148,146

(141,799)
_____________
$
6,347
_____________
_____________

10,971

6,347
____________
$
17,318
____________
____________

STATEMENT OF PERMANENT IMPROVEMENT

Description

Transportation Network
-----------------------------------------------------------Vehicle Purchases & Leases
-----------------------------------------------------------Major Equipment/Non-Vehicular Purchase & Lease
-----------------------------------------------------------Public Buildings & Facilities
-----------------------------------------------------------TOTAL
------------------------------------------------------------

Estimated Cost

Amount to be

of Permanent

Budgeted During

Improvement

Current Year

Name of Paying Fund

500,000

500,000

-------------------

-------------------

Restricted Income Tax
-----------------------------

6,000,000

6,000,000

Restricted Income Tax

-------------------

-------------------

-----------------------------

4,880,000

4,880,000

Restricted Income Tax

-------------------

-------------------

-----------------------------

3,000,000

3,000,000

Restricted Income Tax

-------------------

-------------------

-----------------------------

14,380,000

14,380,000

-------------------------------------

-------------------------------------

STATEMENT OF AMOUNTS REQUIRED FOR
PAYMENT OF FINAL JUDGMENTS
Description of Judgment

Amount of
Judgment

Fund Paying
Judgment

Employment
-----------------------------------------------------------Litigation
-----------------------------------------------------------TOTAL

70,000
------------------750,000
------------------820,000

General Fund
------------------Enterprise Fund
-------------------

------------------------------------------------------------

-------------------------------------

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2030

The City Record

September 11, 2002

41

CITY OF CLEVELAND SINKING FUND COMMISSION
FUTURE DEBT SERVICE REQUIREMENTS
UNVOTED TAX SUPPORTED OBLIGATIONS

PURPOSE

MONTH

ISSUE

MATURITY

INTEREST

12/31/02

2003

2003

TOTAL

DUE

DATE

DATE

RATE

BALANCE

PRINCIPAL

INTEREST

DUE

AUDITORIUM IMP.

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

60,000

60,000

3,600

63,600

BREAKWALL

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

80,000

80,000

4,800

84,800

BREAKWALL

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

50,000

50,000

3,000

53,000

BRIDGE IMP.

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

20,000

20,000

1,200

21,200

JUNE*/DEC.

1976

2003

7.000%

60,000

60,000

2,100

62,100

BRIDGE IMPROVEMENTS
BRIDGE & ROADWAY

APR/OCT

1998

2015

VAR

8,965,000

530,000

394,985

924,985

BRIDGE & ROADWAY

FEB./AUG.

1997

2014

VAR

8,100,000

500,000

450,038

950,038

BRIDGE & ROADWAY

JAN/JUL

1992

2009

VAR

755,000

755,000

46,055

801,055

BRIDGES & ROADS

MAR/SEP

1993

2009

VAR

4,860,000

595,000

253,149

848,149

BRIDGES & ROADS

MAY/NOV.

1994

2012

VAR

4,105,000

1,290,000

247,750

1,537,750

BRIDGES & ROADS

MAY/NOV.

1999

2016

VAR

13,415,000

695,000

681,250

1,376,250

BRIDGES & ROADS

MAR/SEP

1996

2013

VAR

13,140,000

920,000

690,571

1,610,571

BUILDINGS & FACILITIES

MAY/NOV.

1994

2018

VAR

975,000

305,000

58,845

363,845

CEMETERY IMPROVEMENT

APR/OCT

1998

2018

VAR

1,615,000

70,000

72,009

142,009

CITY’S PORTION CTS.

JUNE*/DEC.

1976

2003

7.000%

235,000

235,000

8,225

243,225

CITY’S PORTION CTS.

JUNE*/DEC.

1976

2003

7.000%

140,000

140,000

4,900

144,900

CONVENTION CENTER

JUNE/DEC.

1984

2003

6.000%

175,000

175,000

10,500

185,500

CONVENTION CENTER

MAR/SEP

1996

2015

VAR

1,565,000

90,000

83,026 173,026 FIRE
29,190 109,190 FIRE

APPARATUS

MAY/NOV.

1999

2009

VAR

625,000

80,000

STATION

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

40,000

40,000

2,400 42,400 FREE-

WAY

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

50,000

50,000

3,000

53,000

NEIGHBORHOOD DEV.

MAR/SEP

1996

2014

VAR

800,000

50,000

42,263

92,263

PARK ACQUISITION

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

10,000

10,000

600

10,600

PARKS & RECREATION

APR/OCT

1998

2018

VAR

3,105,000

140,000

138,446

278,446

PARKS & RECREATION

FEB./AUG.

1997

2017

VAR

2,495,000

110,000

136,502

246,502

PARKS & RECREATION

MAY/NOV.

1994

2018

VAR

625,000

195,000

37,720

232,720

PARKS & RECREATION

MAY/NOV.

1999

2019

VAR

3,080,000

120,000

158,692

278,692

PARKS & RECREATION

MAR/SEP

1996

2015

VAR

3,925,000

220,000

208,211 428,211 PUB-

LIC FACILITIES

APR/OCT

1998

2018

VAR

5,960,000

265,000

265,796 530,796 PUB-

LIC FACILITIES

FEB./AUG.

1997

2017

VAR

9,220,000

415,000

504,298 919,298 PUB-

LIC FACILITIES

JAN/JUL

1992

2012

VAR

265,000

265,000

16,165 281,165 PUB-

LIC FACILITIES

MAR/SEP

1993

2013

VAR

6,510,000

455,000

343,751 798,751 PUB-

LIC FACILITIES

MAR/SEP

1996

2020

VAR

2,160,000

75,000

116,170 191,170 PUB-

LIC FACILITIES

MAY/NOV.

1999

2019

VAR

4,140,000

160,000

213,276 373,276 PUB-

LIC FACILITIES

JUNE/DEC.

2000

2020

VAR

8,675,000

310,000

444,670

754,670

JAN/JUL

1992

2012

VAR

260,000

260,000

15,860

275,860

RECREATION FACILITIES

MAR/SEP

1993

2012

VAR

2,465,000

195,000

129,850

324,850

RECREATION FACILITIES

JUNE/DEC.

2000

2020

VAR

4,865,000

175,000

249,344

424,344

RESIDNTL.& REDVLPMNT.

MAY/NOV.

1994

2018

VAR

100,000

30,000

6,035

36,035

RESIDENTIAL AREA IMP.

FEB./AUG

1997

2017

VAR

840,000

40,000

45,923

85,923

JAN/JUL

1992

2012

VAR

40,000

40,000

2,440

42,440

RECREATION FACILITIES

RESIDENT REDEVLOPMENT
RESIDENT DEVELOPMENT

JUNE/DEC.

2000

2020

VAR

2,010,000

70,000

103,043 173,043 RES-

IDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD

MAY/NOV.

1999

2019

VAR

1,945,000

75,000

100,181 175,181 RES-

IDENTIAL NEIGH.DEV.

APR/OCT

1998

2018

VAR

875,000

40,000

JUNE/DEC.

2000

2017

VAR

9,375,000

440,000

476,755

916,755

SERIES 1993 REFUNDING

MAR/SEP

1993

2011

VAR

71,340,000

7,165,000

3,725,040

10,890,040

SERIES 1997 REFUNDING

FEB./AUG.

1997

2018

VAR

45,585,000

235,000

2,538,203

2,773,203

SERIES 1998 REFUNDING

APR/OCT

1998

2007

VAR

17,990,000

6,015,000

800,525

6,815,525

URBAN RENEWAL

MAR/SEP

1993

2013

VAR

1,420,000

100,000

74,974

174,974

269,110,000

24,410,000

13,984,332

38,394,332

& BRIDGE IMP.

Total

39,006 79,006 ROAD

Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to certify a copy of the resolution to the County
Auditor of said County.
Section 3. That this resolution is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its adoption and approval by the Mayor otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

2031

42
Res. No. 1734-02.
By Council Member Cimperman
(by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate portions
of West 27th Place and Oriole Court.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate
portions of West 27th Place and
Oriole
Court
as
hereinafter
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate a portion of
the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all those portions
of:
West 27th Place (16.00 feet wide),
extending Northerly from the Southerly line of Oriole Court (12.00 feet
wide) to the Southerly line of Aust
Avenue (24.00 feet wide). AND
Oriole Court (12.00 feet wide)
extending Easterly from the Easterly line of West 28th Street (66.00
feet wide) to the Westerly line of
West 27th Place (16.00 feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Res. No. 1735-02.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution urging
the Mayor and Director of Public
Safety to consider using the reverse
911 system as part of the City of
Cleveland safety initiative, and to
initiate a pilot program using this
technology in a number of neighborhoods for a period of twelve
months in order to determine overall effectiveness.
Whereas, the reverse 911 is a public safety tool that allows officials
to alert the citizens in a community on any emergency situation that
may arise in their communities; and
Whereas, approximately two-hundred police departments across the
nation are using this type of public
alert system and many other communities have expressed interest in
using reverse 911; and
Whereas, reverse 911 allows safety authorities and personnel to target a precise geographic area of the
city with computer software and
geographic information technologies
that are linked to telecommunications systems, which will enable
them to saturate a specific area
with thousands of calls per hour
notifying residents of acute emergencies; and
Whereas, the reverse 911 system
can be programmed to call specific
lists, such as neighborhood crime
watch groups, or send text messages
to pagers, cellular phones, and fax
machines to notify citizens in affect-

The City Record
ed areas of immediate emergencies;
and
Whereas, reverse 911 allows both
the police and community to be
more directly involved with each
other, as well as supplementing the
public
alert
systems
and
civil
defense to warn citizens of local and
national emergencies; and
Whereas, reverse 911 can be instrumental in enhancing the public safety of senior citizens, and children by
enabling police officers to check on
them periodically in order to make
certain that they are safe; and
Whereas, the reverse 911 system
can be programmed to alert communities when there are dangerous
criminals at large by informing
neighborhood crime watch groups in
various communities to be on watch
of any suspicious persons or activities; and
Whereas, the reverse 911 system
can greatly improve the quality of
life of residents in the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
strongly urges the Mayor and Director of Public Safety to consider
using the reverse 911 system as part
of the City of Cleveland safety initiative, and to initiate a pilot program using this technology in a
number of neighborhoods for a period of twelve months in order to
determine overall effectiveness.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1736-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Critters Walk on September 29, 2002, sponsored by The
Animal Foundation of Cleveland
and Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Cruising for the
Critters Walk, sponsored by The
Animal Foundation of Cleveland
and Hermes Race Systems, on September 29, 2002, beginning at Abbey
to West 11th Street to Kenilworth to
West 14th Street to Starkweather to
West 11th Street to Literary to West
3rd Street to Commercial to West
3rd Street to Literary, provided that

2032

September 11, 2002
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1737-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Get Fit With Firemen
on September 15, 2002, sponsored by
the Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Get Fit With
Firemen, sponsored by the Hermes
Race Systems, on September 15, 2002,
beginning at Lakeside Avenue to
East 9th Street, East 9th Street to
South Marginal, South Marginal to
East 38th Street, East 38th Street to
King, King to East 33rd Street, East
33rd Street to Lakeside, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

September 11, 2002
Ord. No. 1738-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Jake to the Rock on
September 14, 2002, sponsored by
Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Jake to the Rock,
sponsored by Hermes Race Systems,
on September 14, 2002, beginning at
East
9th
Street
and
Carnegie
Avenue and running down East 9th
Street and finishing in front of the
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1739-02.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
St. Rocco’s Church to hang 17-banners on Cleveland Public Power and
Cleveland Electric Illuminating utility poles (by separate permissions)
publicizing their Annual Festival
for the period of August 31, 2002 to
October 31, 2002, inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to St. Rocco’s
Church 3205 Fulton Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109, to install, maintain and
remove 17-banners to be placed on
Cleveland Public Power and Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company
utility poles, (by separate permission), for the period of August 31,
2002 to October 31, 2002, inclusive,
publicizing their Annual Festival,
and which banners are to be placed
at the following pole locations and

The City Record
on the following pole numbers: 2nd
pole-3184 Fulton, No pole #; Fulton
& Hyde-West side, AOM 6338; Fulton
& Hyde-East side, No pole #; 3223
Fulton Rd., No pole # (CEI); 3213
Fulton Rd., No pole #; 3202 Fulton
Rd., No pole #; St. Rocco Ct.-North
side, 2nd pole, No pole # (CEI); St.
Rocco Ct.-1st pole off Fulton South
side, AO6346; Fulton Rd.-2nd pole
South of Trent, (West side), No pole
#; 3213 Fulton Rd, #14272 (CEI);
3174 Fulton Rd., A0639; 3180 Fulton
Rd., No pole #; 3184 Fulton Rd.,
A06310; 3205 Fulton Rd., A06344; 3238
Fulton Rd., No pole #; 3180 Fulton
Rd., No pole #; Fulton & Hyde-West
side, No pole #; and which pole locations and banners shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign(s) erected
and maintained under the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner of any pole
from which a banner will be placed
must be obtained prior to issuance
of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or permitted
on said banner(s), and said banner(s) shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1740-02.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the St. Ignatius/Cats in
the Flats on September 22, 2002, sponsored by St. Ignatius High School.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the St. Ignatius/Cats
in the Flats Run, sponsored by St.
Ignatius High School, on September
22, 2002, beginning at St. Ignatius
High School West 30th Street and
Lorain, proceed east on Lorain
across West 25th Gehring (RTA
Rapid Station), right onto Gehring
to Abbey, left onto Abbey to Columbus, left on Columbus to Carter
Road, right onto Carter Road to
Scranton, right onto Scranton to
Kenilworth, left onto Kenilworth to
Literary, bear left onto Literary to
Professor, right onto Professor to
Jefferson, right onto Jefferson to
Starkweather,
right
onto
Starkweather to Scranton, right onto
Scranton to Willey/Kenilworth, left
onto Willey to Train Avenue, right
onto Train Avenue, to Scranton, left
onto Scranton to Carter, left on
Carter to Columbus, left onto Columbus to Abbey, right on Abbey to

2033

43
Gehring, right on Gehring to Lorain,
left on Lorain to West 29th, right
onto St. Ignatius track and finish
line, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1741-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with National
Urban Fellows, Inc. for participation
in a mentoring program and to
make payment to National Urban
Fellows Inc. in the amount of
$60,000 as a mentor contribution.
Whereas, the National Urban Fellows program is a nationally recognized mentoring program helping
students obtain experience in government and other fields; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has participated in previous years in
this program; and
Whereas,
participation
in
the
National Urban Fellows program
allows Council to obtain the services
of intelligent, eager young people at
minimal cost; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into an
agreement with National Urban Fellows, Inc. for participation in a mentoring program from September 1,
2002 through May 30, 2003.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $60,000 and
shall be payable from Fund No. 01,
Subclass 001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

44
Ord. No. 1742-02.
By Council Member O’Malley.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
St. Leo’s Church to stretch a banner
at 4900 Broadview Road, for the
period from September 18, 2002 to
October 25, 2002, inclusive, publicizing the St. Leo the Great Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby
authorized and directed to issue a
permit to St. Leo Church to install,
maintain and remove a banner at
4900 Broadview Road, for the period
from September 18, 2002 to October
25, 2002, inclusive. Said banner shall
be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit, No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1743-02.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 746-2000,
passed June 12, 2000, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
1596-02,
passed
August 14, 2002, relating to authorizing a requirement contract or
labor
and
materials
needed
to
install street lighting bases and pull
boxes for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 746-2000, passed June 12,
2000, as amended by Ordinance No.
1596-02, passed August 14, 2002, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 182, 20 SF 194, 20 SF 301,
20 SF 311, 20 SF 321, 20 SF 333, 20
SF 341, 20 SF 352, 20 SF 363 and 20

The City Record
SF 372 (RL 125712) in an amount not
to exceed $250,000.00 and shall also
be charged against the proper appropriation account and the Director of
Finance shall certify thereon the
amount of the initial purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with
all subsequent purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies pursuant
to a requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. All expenditures under the
two year contract authorized herein
shall not exceed $1,750,000.00. In the
event that a contract for less than
two years is entered into, all expenditures under such contract and
authorized herein, shall not exceed
$875,000.00 (RL 16533).
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 746-2000, passed
June 12, 2000, as amended by Ordinance No. 1596-02, passed August 14,
2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1744-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of
archival storage and retrieval systems and equipment for Cleveland
City Council.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1213-02,
passed June 10, 2002, authorizes the
public improvement of renovating
space in the Convention Center to
relocate City Council Archives; and
Whereas,
such
improvement
requires the purchase of archival
storage and retrieval systems and
equipment; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance and the Clerk of Council
are hereby authorized to enter into
a written contract or contracts in
accordance with the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the necessary items
of archival storage and retrieval
systems and equipment to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for Cleveland City Council.
Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract or contracts hereby authorized shall be paid from Fund No.
20 SF 340, Request No. 115129.
Section 3. That pursuant to section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases

2034

September 11, 2002
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Finance and Clerk of
Council may sign all documents
with the State of Ohio or any of its
political subdivisions that are necessary to effectuate such cooperative efforts and may enter into contract with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1745-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 5. (Steven Muhammad (Hill)).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon public rights of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Steven
Muhammad (Hill).
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

September 11, 2002
Ord. No. 1746-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling
in
Ward
5.
(Siene
Rousseau).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon public rights of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Siene
Rousseau.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1747-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in peddling in Ward 5. (Robert Orr, Jr.)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow

The City Record
each person named below to engage
in peddling in the public rights of
way of Ward 5: Robert Orr, Jr. at
Woodland Avenue and Beaver Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1748-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in peddling in Ward 5. (Antonio Wilson).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon public rights of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Antonio
Wilson.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

2035

45
Ord. No. 1749-02.
By Council Member Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 8. (Rolonda Robinson).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon public rights of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 8; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 8: Rolonda
Robinson.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1750-02.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 20. (Jim Munas).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 20; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow

46
each person named below to engage
in peddling in the public rights of
way of Ward 20: Jim Munas at West
150th Street and Puritas Avenue.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3. That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1751-02.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance amending the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance 1426-02, passed July 17, 2002
as it pertains to the Kirby Manor
Elderly/Multi-family Rehabilitation
Project through the use of Ward 18
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1426-02,
passed July 17, 2002, are hereby
amended to read respectively as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Cudell Improvement, Inc.
for the Kirby Manor Elderly/Multifamily
Rehabilitation
Project
through the use of Ward 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Cudell Improvement, Inc. for
the Kirby Manor Elderly/Multi-family Rehabilitation Project, for the
public purpose of improving the
quality of multi-family housing for
senior citizens that reside in the
City of Cleveland through the use of
Ward
18
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1426-02,
passed July 17, 2002 are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1752-02.
By Council Members White and
Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept
grants from the Clean Ohio Assistance Fund, for Clean Ohio Assessment Grants for Phase II environmental
assessments
on
various
areas located within the Slavic Village/Broadway Corridor in Wards 2
and 12 to be used for the future
redevelopment of these areas; and
authorizing said Director to enter
into contracts with Slavic Village
Development to implement the projects.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept grants
in the aggregate amount of $660,000,
from the Clean Ohio Assistance
Fund, for Clean Ohio Assessment
Grants to conduct the Phase II environmental assessments on various
areas located within the Slavic Village/Broadway Corridor in Wards 2
and 12 to be used for the future
redevelopment
of
the
following
areas:
1. The northwest corner of Broadway Avenue and Warner Road in
the Mill Creek Falls area, Project
Area 7a;
2. The land north of Beman
Avenue and west of Turney Road in
Ward 2, Project Area 7b;
3. The corner of Warner and Turney Road, Project Area 7c;
4. The land consisting of six study
areas including property along I-77
to the west; Union Avenue to the
north; Broadway Avenue to the
south; and the Wheeling and Lake
Erie Railroad to the East, Project
Areas 1-6,
for the purposes set forth in the
summary and according thereto;
that the Director of Economic Development is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grants; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the summary for the grants.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grants, File No. 1752-02-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
Slavic
Village
Development
to
implement the environmental assessments described in the summary.
Section 4. That the contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain terms and conditions as the Director deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds of the grants
accepted pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

2036

September 11, 2002
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1753-02.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 2181
Murray Hill Road and Patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from Suppers
Ready, Inc., DBA Salvatores Ristorante, 2181 Murray Hill Road and
Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent Number 8709410 to Gargiso
Properties II Ltd., 2181 Murray Hill
Road and Patio, Cleveland, Ohio
44106, Permanent Number 3052797;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8916606 owned by 3077 East 65th
Street, Inc., DBA Mena’s Market,
3077 East 65th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44105, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.

September 11, 2002
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1754-02.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
permit at 7904 Cedar Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1157-02,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 7904 Cedar
Avenue by Resolution No. 1157-02
adopted by Council on June 3, 2002;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and hereby consents to said
transfer pursuant to the Cooperation
Agreement by and through Patricia
J. Britt and Naser Jaber, President,
Jabco, Inc., Cleveland, DBA Cedars
Finest, 7904 Cedar Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number
4189180, and executed by the Department of Law; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to 7904 Cedar Avenue be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1157-02,
containing said objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1755-02.
By
Council
Members
Cintron,
Zone, Cimperman, Coats, Conwell,
O’Malley, Pierce Scott, Westbrook,
Sweeney,
Gordon,
Lewis,
Dolan,
Brady and Britt.
An emergency resolution urging
Cargill
Deicing
Technology
to
restore former strikers to their
rightful jobs, urging the Mayor of
the City of Cleveland to refrain from
purchasing salt from Cargill until
the former strikers are returned to
their jobs, and urging the federal
government to investigate Cargill’s
compliance with federal laws and
regulations.
Whereas, the right to strike and
bargain collectively without retaliation from employers is a fundamental democratic principle enshrined
in federal labor law; and
Whereas, 165 workers employed
by
Cargill
Deicing
Technology
(“Cargill”) and members of Teamsters
Local
436,
who
perform
extremely difficult labor in the salt
mines under Lake Erie, went on
strike May 6, 2002 to defend their
working conditions, seniority rights
and living standards; and
Whereas, as a result of such
strike Cargill proceeded to hire
armed guards and imported out-ofstate strike breakers; and
Whereas, the workers voted on
August 13, 2002 to return to their
jobs and were told by Cargill that
they could do so; and
Whereas, upon returning to work,
the workers were told that only 26
workers would be rehired and that
the remaining jobs would be given
to the strikebreakers; and
Whereas, this Council considers
such action a violation of community standards of fairness and the
rights of working people; and
Whereas, these actions of Cargill
cause
this
Council
to
question
Cargill’s compliance with federal
safety laws and regulations enacted
to protect workers; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
Cargill to reconsider its decision to
rehire only a small percentage of
the workers who participated in
strike activities and urges Cargill to
restore all of the former strikers to
their rightful jobs.
Section 2. That this Council urges
the Mayor of the City of Cleveland
to refrain from purchasing salt from
Cargill until the former strikers are
returned to their jobs.
Section 3. That this Council urges
the federal government to investigate Cargill’s compliance with federal laws and regulations governing
employee safety, mine health and
safety, rail and transportation safety, and environmental protection.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Cargill
Deicing Technology, U.S. Senator
Michael
DeWine,
U.S.
Senator
George
Voinovich,
Congressman
Dennis Kucinich, Congresswoman
Stephanie
Tubbs-Jones,
Congressman Steven LaTourette, Congressman
Sherrod
Brown,
Cuyahoga
County Commissioner Jimmy Dimora, Cuyahoga County Commissioner
Tim
McCormack,
and
Cuyahoga
County Commissioner Peter Lawson
Jones.

2037

47
Section 5. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1756-02.
By Council Members Conwell and
Brady.
An emergency resolution supporting area seniors in their efforts to
obtain approval from the State
Attorney General of a petition to the
Ohio legislature for a discount plan
for prescription drug prices and
encouraging the State Attorney General to quickly determine the accuracy of the description of the proposed law so that said seniors can
meet the December deadline in
which to obtain signatures to place
the Prescription Drug Fair Pricing
Act before the state legislature during its upcoming session.
Whereas, seven weeks ago, area
seniors submitted a petition to State
Attorney General Betty Montgomery
requesting that she review the
description of a proposed law that
would discount prescription drug
prices for seniors; and
Whereas, the Attorney General
must review and determine whether
the description of the proposed law
is fair and accurate; and
Whereas, after such determination
is made, seniors and other supporters of the proposed law, known as
the Prescription Drug Fair Pricing
Act, may collect signatures in order
to place said proposed law before
the state legislature during its
upcoming session; and
Whereas, supporters of the proposed law must collect 100,626 signatures from half of Ohio’s counties
by December so that lawmakers can
take up the proposal at their next
session; and
Whereas, this Council understands
that this is a complicated issue and
that the Attorney General must
ensure that the language describing
the proposed law is clear; and
Whereas, given the number of signatures required and that there are
less than three months to collect the
signatures, and given that the Attorney General has already had the
proposed language before her for
seven weeks, it is not unreasonable
to request that the Attorney General move forward quickly in making
her determination; and
Whereas,
this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby supports area seniors in their
efforts to obtain approval from the
State Attorney General of a petition
to the Ohio legislature for a discount plan for prescription drug
prices and encourages the State
Attorney General to quickly determine the accuracy of the description
of the proposed law so that said
seniors can meet the December

48
deadline in which to obtain signatures to place the Prescription Drug
Fair Pricing Act before the state
legislature during its upcoming session.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to forward a
copy of this resolution to Betty
Montgomery, Attorney General of
the State of Ohio.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1757-02.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution urging
the Congress of the United States to
spend
more
federal
dollars
on
research for the prevention and cure
of pancreatic cancer and urging that
such research be done in the name
of Gloria Rollins Conwell, a pancreatic cancer patient.
Whereas, the pancreas is an organ
of the digestive system; and
Whereas,
approximately
27,000
people are diagnosed with pancreatic cancer annually; and
Whereas,
approximately
27,000
people die annually from pancreatic
cancer; and
Whereas, pancreatic cancer is the
fifth leading cause of cancer deaths
following breast cancer, lung cancer, colon cancer and prostate cancer; and
Whereas, those that have a history of smoking, high intakes of meat
and fat, cirrhosis, chronic pancreatitis, diabetes and surgery to the
upper digestive tract are more at
risk of getting pancreatic cancer;
and
Whereas, for unknown reasons,
pancreatic cancer has great potential to invade and spread very early;
however, pancreatic cancer does not
manifest specific symptoms until
late in the disease, usually proceeding silently and going unnoticed
until late in the disease; and
Whereas,
pancreatic
cancer
is
notorious in its ability to resist
many chemotherapy drugs; and
Whereas, due to difficulties in
diagnosis, the intrinsic aggressive
nature of pancreatic cancers and the
sparse systemic treatment options
available, only approximately 4% of
patients diagnosed with pancreatic
cancer will be alive five years after
diagnosis; and
Whereas,
this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland hereby urges the
Congress of the United States to
spend
more
federal
dollars
on
research for the prevention and cure
of pancreatic cancer and further
urges such research to be done in
the name of Gloria Rollins Conwell,
a pancreatic cancer patient.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to the
appropriate members of the United
States Congress.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1758-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 2474
East 40th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from Robert L.
Ferrell, DBA Ferrell’s Grocery, 4126
East 146th Street, 1st Floor only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent
Number 2694598 to 2474 East 40th
Street, Inc., DBA Plaza Beverage,
2474 East 40th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
9116690; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Robert L. Ferrell, DBA Ferrell’s Grocery, 4126

2038

September 11, 2002
East 146th Street, 1st Floor only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent
Number 2694598 to 2474 East 40th
Street, Inc., DBA Plaza Beverage,
2474 East 40th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
9116690; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1759-02.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution designating September 11th of each year
as “The Spirit of the American Family Day” and encouraging the U.S.
Congress to designate September
11th of each year as “The Spirit of
the American Family Day”.
Whereas, the events of September
11, 2001 resulted in many Americans
recognizing the importance of family in their lives; and
Whereas, unfortunately, over two
thousand individuals lost their lives
in the September 11, 2001 attacks
and the families of these individuals must confront their loss on a
daily basis; and
Whereas, in the days, weeks, and
months following the tragic events
of September 11, 2001, the spirit of
the American family has been revitalized in that Americans are spending more time with their family
members and expressing an appreciation for their family; and
Whereas, Americans will remember the victims of September 11,
2001, and their families, on September 11th of each year; and
Whereas, it is appropriate for
such remembrance to be coupled
with an appreciation of family and
an acknowledgment of the resilient
spirit of the American family; and
Whereas, designating September
11th of each year as “The Spirit of
the American Family Day” will
honor all victims of the September
11, 2001 attacks and will encourage
Americans to appreciate their families; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby designates September 11th of
each year as “The Spirit of the
American Family Day” in the City
of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit

September 11, 2002
copies of the resolution to the members of the United State Senate and
the United States House of Representatives who represent the City of
Cleveland
along
with
a
letter
encouraging them to introduce and
support a resolution in Congress
declaring September 11th of each
year as “The Spirit of the American
Family Day”.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1761-02.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 9621
Mt. Auburn Road, 1st Fl. & Bsmt.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from Woddi II,
Inc., DBA Cousins Superette, 9621
Mt. Auburn Road, 1st Floor and
Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
Permanent Number 9725521 to East
97th Food Market, Inc., DBA Eastside Market, 9621 Mt. Auburn Road,
1st Floor and Basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
24034660005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Woddi II, Inc.,
DBA Cousins Superette, 9621 Mt.
Auburn Road, 1st Floor and Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number 9725521 to East 97th
Food Market, Inc., DBA Eastside
Market, 9621 Mt. Auburn Road, 1st
Floor and Basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 24034660005;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1762-02.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit to
4810 Bridge Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C2 Liquor Permit to Katherine D.
Harrison, DBA West 48th Street
Marathon,
4810
Bridge
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent
Number 3632975; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section

2039

49
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit to Katherine D. Harrison,
DBA
West
48th
Street
Marathon, 4810 Bridge Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number
3632975, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1763-02.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the issuance of
a New C1 Liquor Permit to 4200
West 130th Street and repealing Resolution No. 1155-02, objecting to said
issuance.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the issuance of a New C1 Liquor
Permit to 4200 West 130th Street by
Resolution No. 1155-02 adopted by
Council on June 3, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
issuance and hereby consents to
said issuance; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
issuance of a New C1 Liquor Permit
to 4200 West 130th Street be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1155-02, containing said
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate issuance
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

The City Record

50
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1060-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of paint and paint supplies,
for the various divisions of the City
government, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In the title, lines 6 and 7, and
in Section 1, line 4, and in line 12,
strike “two years” and insert “one
year”
2. In Section 2, line 1, after “shall”
insert “not exceed $185,000 and shall”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 1061-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and material necessary to maintain typewriters, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In the title, line 7, and in Section 1, line 4, and in line 12, strike
“two years” and insert “one year”
2. In Section 2, line 1, after “shall”
insert “not exceed $30,000 and shall”.
Amendments agreed to.

contract of fasteners, for the various divisions of City government,
for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In the title, line 6, and in Section 1, line 4, and in lines 11 and 12,
strike “two years” and insert “one
year”
2. In Section 2, line 1, after “shall”
insert “not exceed $100,000 and
shall”.
Amendments agreed to.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1812-2000.
By Council Members Melena and
Zone.
An
ordinance
to
establish
a
Planned Unit Development (PUD)
Overlay District and approve the
corresponding Planned Unit Development project on properties bound
by W. 53rd Street, Walworth Avenue, S.E., Fenwick Avenue, S.E.,
Junction Road, S.E. and the Railroad tracks and to change the Use
District of said lands. (Map Change
No. 2018, Sheet No. 1)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE

Ord. No. 1063-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of lamps, for the various
divisions of City government, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In the title, line 6, and in Section 1, line 4, strike “two years” and
insert “one year”.
2. In Section 2, line 1, after “shall”
insert “not exceed $175,000 and
shall”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 1064-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of paper and cloth wipers,
for the various divisions of City
government, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In the title, line 6, and in Section 1, line 4, and in lines 11 and 12,
strike “two years” and insert “one
year”
2. In Section 2, line 1, after “shall”
insert
“not
exceed
$50,000
and
shall”.
Ord. No. 1065-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement

Ord. No. 1098-02.
By Council Member Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an agreement with Servisair, Inc. for the reimbursement to
Servisair, Inc. for the purchase of
jetbridges; and to reimburse Servisair, Inc. for the purchase.
Ord. No. 1259-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and
Jackson
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of towing services, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control.
Without objection, the aforementioned legislation was laid on the
table pursuant to the Rules of Council.
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:15 p.m. to meet on Monday, September 16, 2002, at 7:00 p.m. in the
Council Chambers.

Clerk of Council

2040

September 11, 2002
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
Ord. No. 1060-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of paint and paint supplies,
for the various divisions of the City
government, for a period not to
exceed one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of paint
and paint supplies, in the approximate amount as purchased during
the previous term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the various divisions of the City
government. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than one year may be taken
if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
not exceed $185,000 and shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
104719)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 1061-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and material necessary to maintain typewriters, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed one
year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

September 11, 2002
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of labor
and material necessary to maintain
typewriters,
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
one year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
not exceed $30,000 and shall certify
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
104727)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 1063-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of lamps, for the various
divisions of City government, for a
period not to exceed one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
lamps in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the various

The City Record
divisions of City government. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $175,000
and shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
104724)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 1064-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of paper and cloth wipers,
for the various divisions of City
government, for a period not to
exceed one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of paper
and cloth wipers, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
one year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
not exceed $50,000 and shall certify

2041

51
thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
104729)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 1065-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of fasteners, for the various
divisions of City government, for a
period not to exceed one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of fasteners, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the various
divisions of City government. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than one year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
not exceed $100,000 and shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
104720)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record

52
BOARD OF CONTROL
September 4, 2002
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, September 4,
2002, at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Campbell presiding.
Present: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Absent: None.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Henry Guzman, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 586-02.
By Director Baker.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of Intelligent Mailing Solutions,
for an office mailer-folder-inserter
machine, including maintenance for
a period of one year, for the Division of Assessments and Licenses,
Department of Finance, received on
August 9, 2002, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 830-02,
passed by Cleveland City Council on
June 3, 2002, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantities
would
amount to Seventeen Thousand, Two
Hundred One and 00/100 Dollars
(2% 5 Days) ($17,201.00), is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is hereby requested to enter
into contract for such items.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 587-02.
By Directors Konicek and Baker.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1068-98, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on August 19,
1998, and Board of Control Resolution No. 559-2000, adopted by this
Board of Control on August 16, 2000,
the City through its Director of Public Utilities entered into City Contract No. 57313 with Deloitte Consulting, LLC (“Consultant”) to design and implement a 5-year information technology plan for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1565-02,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland
on
August
14,
2002,
amended said Ordinance No. 1068-98
to authorize the Director of Public
Utilities to employ, by one or more
contracts, one or more firms of consultants to provide professional services necessary to design, procure
and implement information management systems for the various divisions of the Department of Public
Utilities; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1582-02,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on August 14, 2002, authorizes the Director of Finance to
employ, by expanding an existing
contract, one or more firms to provide professional services necessary

to prepare Requests for Proposals
for the design and implementation
of a payroll and human resource
system or systems for the Departments of Finance and Personnel and
Human Resources; and
Whereas,
Consultant
has
proposed by its letter dated August 6,
2002 to perform the additional professional services to design and
implement an information technology plan for the Divisions of Cleveland Public Power and Water Pollution Control; and
Whereas, Consultant has proposed
by its letter dated July 31, 2002 to
perform the professional services to
prepare the Requests for Proposals
for the design and implementation
of a payroll and human resource
system or systems for the Departments of Finance and Personnel and
Human Resources; and
Whereas, the City finds the Consultant’s proposals acceptable and
desires to amend its agreement with
Consultant on the basis of its proposals to provide for the performance of and payment for such
additional services; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Directors of Public Utilities and
Director of Finance are hereby
authorized to enter into the first
amendment to the agreement between the City of Cleveland and
Deloitte Consulting, LLC (“Consultant”), Contract No. 57313, based on
its proposal dated August 6, 2002 to
design and implement an information technology plan for the Divisions of Cleveland Public Power and
Water Pollution Control and its proposal dated July 31, 2002 to prepare
the Requests for Proposals for the
design and implementation of a payroll and human resource system or
systems for the Departments of
Finance and Personnel and Human
Resources. The amount to be paid
for the services for Divisions of
Cleveland Public Power and Water
Pollution
Control
shall
be
an
amount not to exceed $2,652,838.00.
The amount to be paid for the services
for
the
Departments
of
Finance and Human Resources shall
be
an
amount
not
to
exceed
$151,752.00.
The
total
contract
amount is thereby increased from
$18,700,000.00 to $21,504,591.00.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 588-02.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Perk Co., Inc. for
the public improvement of constructing
and
repairing
catch
basins and manholes, base bid all
items,
including
a
ten
percent
(10%) contingency allowance, for
the Division of Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities, received on the 27th day of
June 2002, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 386-02, passed
April 29, 2002, upon a unit basis for
the improvement to be performed as
ordered during the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, at the unit
prices set forth in the said bid,
which on the basis of the estimat-

2042

September 11, 2002
ed work to be done would amount
to Three Hundred Forty Six Thousand Seven Hundred Twenty and
00/100 Dollars ($346,720.00), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest responsible bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into a requirement contract for said improvement, which contract shall provide
for the initial performance of the
following work hereunder:
Requisition No. 109239
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Two
Hundred Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($200,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the contractor
will perform so much of the balance
of the work as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said requirement contract, whether the same
shall be less than the total estimate
of work to be performed under said
contract or shall exceed the same by
not more than ten percent.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Perk Co., Inc. for the contract authorized herein are approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
MBE/FBE — WORK
McTech Corp., d.b.a. Tech Ready Mix
MBE — $52,890.00 (15.26%)
Cuyahoga Supply
FBE — $17,666.00 (5.20%)
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 589-02.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Weatherproofing Technologies, Inc. for an estimated quantity of labor and materials to repair
or replace roofs (all items) for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
(2) years beginning with the date
of execution of a contract, received
on the 28th day of June, 2002, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1147-01, passed July 18, 2001 on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Nine Hundred Seventy Seven Thousand Seven Hundred Eighty Six Dollars and Ninety
Two Cents ($977,786.92) (Net), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 122993
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Seventy Five
Thousand Dollars ($75,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
such as does not exceed $500,000.00
in value per year, may be ordered

September 11, 2002
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 590-02.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of IDEXX Distribution Corporation for an estimated quantity
of Biological Testing Media and
Appurtenances (all items) for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
(2) years beginning with the date
of execution of a contract, received
on the 2nd day of August, 2002, pursuant to the authority of Section
129.28 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Sixty Five Thousand Six Hundred Thirty Nine Dollars ($65,639.00) (Net 30 Days) is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 122989
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Thirty
Thousand
and
00/100
Dollars
($30,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 591-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Whereas, Resolution No. 421-02,
adopted by this Board on July 10,
2002, authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into a written contract with CT Consultants for engineering services to design the rehabilitation of Western Avenue, incorrectly stated the proposal date as
May 17, 2002 and omitted consultant’s
revised proposal; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that Resolution No. 421-02, adopted
by this Board on July 10, 2002,
authorizing the Director of Public
Service to enter into a written contract with CT Consultants for engineering services to design the rehabilitation of Western Avenue, is
amended by deleting “May 17, 2002”
and substituting therefor May 10,
2002, as amended by its revised proposal dated June 14, 2002.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 421-02 not expressly amended

The City Record
herein shall remain unchanged and
in fall force and effect.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 592-02.
By Acting Director Carroll.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on June 27, 2002 for
Larvicide Briquettes (all items) for
the Division of Environment, Department of Public Health, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
537-02, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on April 7, 2002,
be and the same are hereby rejected.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 593-02.
By Acting Director Carroll.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on February 13, 2002
for Upgrades of new dishwasher for
the Division of Correction, Department of Public Health, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 12022000, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on August 7, 2000,
be and the same are hereby rejected.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 594-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of General Tree Service for an estimated quantity of labor and materials to plant trees at various locations throughout the City of Cleveland on city-owned properties, Items
No. 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19,
21, 22, 26, 29, 30, 31, 35, 39, 40, 42, 43,
44, 46, 47, 48, 50, 52, 54, 58, 59, 62, 64,
68, 69, 71, 73, and 74 for the Division
of Park Maintenance & Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation &
Properties, for a period of (1) year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
14th day of August 2002, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 111502, passed June 17, 2002, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Eighty-Two Thousand Seven Hundred Sixty-Eight and
00/100 ($82,768.00) Dollars, (2% Net
30 Days) is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Parks, Rec. &
Properties is hereby requested to
enter into requirement contract for
such commodities, which shall provide for the immediate purchase as
the initial amount of such contract
of the following:
Requisition No. 118819
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Eight

2043

53
Thousand Two Hundred Thirty-Six
and 00/100 ($8,236.00) Dollars.
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 595-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Licursi Company, Inc. for an estimated quantity of Labor and materials to plant trees at various locations throughout the City of Cleveland on City-owned properties, Items
7, 10, 16, 18, 20, 25, 27, 28, 34, 37, 38,
41, 45, 49, 53, 55, 60, 63, 65, 66, 70,
and 72 for the Division of Park
Maintenance & Properties, Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties for a period of (1) year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on the 14th day
of August 2002, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1115-02,
passed June 17, 2002, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Forty-Three Thousand
Ninety-Nine
and
00/100
($43,099.00) Dollars, (2% Net 30
Days) is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Parks, Recreation & Properties is hereby requested to enter into requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 118820
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Four
Thousand Two Hundred Eighty-Five
and 00/100 ($4,285.00) Dollars.
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractor by Licursi Company, Inc.
for the abovementioned requirement
contract be and the same hereby is
approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK

Caver Brothers, Inc.
P.O. Box 46797
Bedford Hts., Ohio 44146
Tree supply
& installation
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

The City Record

54
Resolution No. 596-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of East Ohio Grass Company, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of labor
and materials to plant trees at various locations throughout the City of
Cleveland on city-owned properties,
Items 2, 12, 14, 23, 24, 32, 33, 36, 51,
56, 57, 61, and 67 for the Division of
Park
Maintenance
&
Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation &
Properties, for a period of (1) year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
14th day of August 2002, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 111502, passed June 17, 2002, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Twenty-Two Thousand Three Hundred Eighty-Six and
00/100 ($22,386.00) Dollars (2% Net
30 Days) is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Parks, Recreation & Properties is hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 118821
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Two
Thousand Two Hundred Eight and
00/100 ($2,208.00) Dollars.
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractor by East Ohio Grass Company for the abovementioned requirement contract be and the same
hereby is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK

Perk Company Inc.
55 Industry Drive
Bedford, Ohio 44146
Tree supply
& installation
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 597-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Perfecturf, Inc. for an estimated
quantity of labor and materials to
plant trees at various locations
throughout the City of Cleveland on
city-owned properties, Item 1 for the
Division of Park Maintenance &
Properties, Department of Parks,
Recreation
&
Properties,
for
a
period of (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on the 14th day of August
2002, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1115-02, passed June
17, 2002, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Six Thousand Three Hundred Thirty-Seven and 50/100 ($6,337.50) Dollars (1% Net 10 Days) is hereby af-

September 11, 2002

firmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Parks, Recreation & Properties is
hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:

Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

Requisition No. 118822
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Seven
Hundred
Thirty-One
and
25/100
($731.25) Dollars.
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractor by Perfecturf, Inc. for the
abovementioned
requirement
contract be and the same hereby is
approved:

Resolution No. 599-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 103-25-027 and
118-29-087 under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1381-02
passed August 14, 2002, authorized
the sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. has proposed. to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1381-02 passed August
14, 2002, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 10325-027 and 118-29-087, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK

Caver Brothers, Inc.
P.O. Box 46797
Bedford Hts., Ohio 44146
Tree supply
& installation
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 598-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 106-19-046 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 784-02
passed July 17, 2002, authorized the
sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas,
Laverne
Nixon
and
Arthur Nixon, Jr. have proposed to
the City to purchase and develop
said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to the authorization
of Ordinance No. 784-02 passed July
17, 2002, by the Cleveland City
Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized to execute an official deed for
and on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with
Laverne
Nixon
and
Arthur Nixon, Jr. for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 106-19-046, as described in said
Ordinance in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00,
which
amount
is
hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.

2044

Resolution No. 600-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 135-03-010 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 2093-01
passed August 14, 2002, authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Evelyn J. Waldron has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 2093-01 passed August
14, 2002, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland

September 11, 2002
with Evelyn J. Waldron for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel No. 135-03-010, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$400.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 601-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 112-14-031, 112-14066, 112-14-075, and 112-14-084 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1123-02
passed August 14, 2002, authorized
the sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Northeast Shores Development Corporation has proposed to
the City to purchase and develop
said parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1123-02 passed August
14, 2002, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Northeast Shores Development
Corporation for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos.
112-14-031, 112-14-066, 112-14-075, and
112-14-084, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 602-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 124-24-032 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and

The City Record
Whereas, Ordinance No. 684-02
passed August 14, 2002, authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, William King has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 684-02 passed August
14, 2002, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with William King for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 124-24-032, as described in said
Ordinance in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$450.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 603-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 106-09-038 and
106-09-066 under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1203-02
passed August 14, 2002, authorized
the sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, New Mt. Zion Baptist
Church has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcels;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1203-02 passed August
14, 2002, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with New Mt. Zion Baptist Church
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 106-09-038 and
106-09-066, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the
consideration for said parcels shall
be $100.00 each, which amount is
hereby determined to be not less
than the fair market value of said
parcels for uses in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

2045

55
Resolution No. 604-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 106-04-066 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1122-02
passed August 14, 2002, authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Joe Staton and Beulah
Staton have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcel;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1122-02 passed August
14, 2002, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Joe Staton and Beulah Staton
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 106-04-066, as
described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the fair
market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 605-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 001-23-080 and
001-08-103 under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1383-02
passed August 14, 2002, authorized
the sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas,
Cudell
Improvement,
Inc. has proposed to the City to purchase and develop said parcels; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1383-02 passed August
14, 2002, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Cudell Improvement, Inc. for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 001-23-080 and
001-08-103, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be

56
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 606-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 104-27-018 located at 1630 East
45th Street in Ward 13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Stanley L. Marszal, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Stanley L.
Marszal for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 10427-018 located at 1630 East 45th
Street, in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1,300.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 607-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,

The City Record
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 014-15-010, 014-15011, 112-25-074, 112-25-075, 112-25-076,
and 112-25-091 under said Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 210-2000
passed June 12, 2000, authorized the
transfer of said parcels to the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties for a consideration
established by the Board of Control
at not less than the Fair Market
Value; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 210-2000 passed June
12, 2000, by the Cleveland City Council,
the
Director
of
Community
Development is hereby authorized to
transfer to the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Permanent Parcel Nos. 014-15-010, 014-15011, 112-25-074, 112-25-075, 112-25-076,
and 112-25-091, as described in said
Ordinance in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$1.00 each, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcels for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
Campbell,
Acting
Directors Horvath, Abouserhal, Directors Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Acting
Director Carroll, Director Draper, Acting
Director
Glending,
Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Acting Director
Huth, Directors Fumich and Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

2046

September 11, 2002
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2002
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 02-226: 4460 Douse
Avenue (Ward 5)
S. C. Baumgartner, executor of the
Estate
of
Mary
K.
Brumfield,
appeals to construct a 14' x 24' onestory attached garage to an existing
23' x 45' one dwelling house all situated on a 40' x 120' parcel located in a Two-Family District at 4460
Douse Avenue; said construction
being contrary to the Enforcement
and Penalty Requirements of Section 327.02(b), where no building
shall be erected until a permit is
issued and contrary to the Residential District Requirements, where
such accessory building shall be at
least 10' from the main building on
an adjoining lot in a Residence District as stated in Section 337.23(a)
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-227: 12219 Iowa
Avenue (Ward 10)
Adell and Mary Hobson, owners,
appeal to enclose an existing 8' x
20' front porch of an existing 2
dwelling house all situated on a 35'
x 85' parcel located in a One-Family District on the north side of Iowa
Avenue at 12219 Iowa Avenue; said
enclosure being contrary to the
Yards and Courts Requirements,
where enclosed front porches shall
not project more than 4' and not
have an aggregate vertical area in
any story more than 20% of the area
of the façade in that story as stated in Section 357.13(b)(4) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-229: 4140 East 113th
Street (Ward 2)
Judge Carter, owner, appeals to
construct a 30' x 30' one-story
detached garage to the rear of an
existing two-story house all situated
on a 40' x 142' parcel located in a
Two-Family District on the west
side of East 113th Street at 4140
East 113th Street; said construction
being contrary to the Residential
District Requirements, where a 900
sq. ft. garage is proposed and the
allowable square footage is 723.3 sq.
ft. as stated in Section 337.23(7)(A)
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-230:
3309 West
162nd Street (Ward 21)
Raymond
A.
Murray,
owner,
appeals to install approximately 64
linear feet of 6' high wood fencing
to the north side yard of a 40' x
120' parcel located in a One-Family
District on the east side of West
162nd Street at 3309 West 162nd
Street; said installation being contrary to the Fence Regulations,
where a distance of 2'-7" is proposed for the fence running parallel
to a building on the same property
and 3' is required as stated in Section 358.04(b) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar
No.
02-232:
5501
Cass
Avenue (Ward 17)
HKM Direct Market Communication, Inc., owner c/o Nancy Borchert,
agent, appeals to install approximately 110 linear feet of 10' high
wood fencing to the west and south
of an irregular shaped acreage parcel located in a Semi-Industry District on the south side of Cass

September 11, 2002

The City Record

Avenue at 5501 Cass Avenue; said
installation being contrary to the
Fence Regulations, where a 10'
high fence is proposed and the maximum allowable height is 6' as stated in Section 358.05(a)(2) of the
Codified Ordinances.

Calendar No. 02-212: 3375 West 118th
Street
Hanna Gereby, owner, appealed to
install 14 linear feet of 7' high
board on board fencing at the rear
of a 35' x 105' parcel in a One-Family District.

Calendar
No.
02-233:
7400
Platt
Avenue (Ward 5)
Mount Herman Good Samaritan
Foundation,
owner
c/o
Nancy
Borchert, agent, appeals to install
approximately 132 linear feet of 7'
high chain link fencing with 1' of
barbed wire to the north of an irregular shaped acreage corner parcel
located in a Multi-Family District on
the south side of Platt Avenue at
7400 Platt Avenue; said installation
being contrary to the Fence Regulations of Section 358.04(a), where
fence in the residential district in
front yards and actual side street
yards shall not exceed 4' in height
and 8' is proposed and Section
358.04(c)(1), where fences in a residential district shall be ornamental
and chain link is proposed and 1'
high barbed wire is proposed on top
of the proposed chain link fencing
and barbed wire is not permitted in
a residential district as stated in
Section 358.05(b) of the Codified
Ordinances.

Calendar No. 02-214: 2013 Columbus
Road
Morgan Services, Inc., owner,
appealed to construct a 115' x 160'
forty-three space parking lot to
the south of an existing parking
lot in split zoning between MultiFamily
and
Semi-Industry
Districts.

Calendar No. 02-234: 19108 Kildeer
Avenue (Ward 11)
Ante Valentic, owner, appeals to
construct a 19' x 24' one-story,
frame attached garage to an existing 20' x 40' one dwelling house all
situated on a 50' x 100' parcel located in a Two-Family District on the
south side of Kildeer Avenue at
19108 Kildeer Avenue; said construction being contrary to the
Yards and Courts Requirements of
Section 357.08, where a 20' rear yard
setback is required and 3' is proposed
and
Section
357.09(2)(b),
where a 3' interior side yard setback is required a 1'-6" is proposed
and contrary to the Nonconforming
Use Requirements, where an existing nonconforming use requires the
Board of Zoning Appeals approval
as stated in Section 359.01 of the
Codified Ordinances.

Calendar No. 02-163: 14401 Harvard
Avenue
George Clement, owner, and Joe
Sanders, tenant, appealed to change
the use of a one-story masonry service station building into a restaurant on a 120' x 144' parcel located
in split zoning for Local Retail Business and One-Family Districts; subject to conditions.

EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2002
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, September 9, 2002, the following appeals
were heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 02-170: 3586 East 112th
Street
Charles and Rachel Lesley, owners, appealed to enclose an 8' x 24'
front porch of a 24' x 29' one
dwelling house in a Two-Family
District; subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 02-211: 3228 Berea Road
Michael Baker, owner, appealed to
construct a 24' x 26' x 18' high two
car garage to the rear of a 52' x
147' parcel in a Two-Family District.

Calendar No. 02-217: 1147 East 113th
Street
James Boddy, owner, appealed to
install 25 linear feet of 3' high
chain link fencing with a gate to
the west of a 35' x 105' parcel in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-118: 9901 Broadway
Avenue
John P. Papouras, owner, and
Sprint/North Coast Communications,
tenant, appealed to collocate communication antennas and equipment
on an existing telecommunication
tower in a One-Family District; subject to conditions.

The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 02-216: Appeal of Mystic Knights, Inc.
Mystic
Knights,
Inc.
d.b.a.,
Camelot Town Hall appealed from a
refused application for a Dance Hall
License for the location at 11417
Miles Avenue.
The following appeals were Withdrawn:

57
Calendar No. 02-183: 15255 Triskett
Road
Ohio Leitina Company, owner c/o
Bruce Meade, appealed to develop a
158' x 178' vacant parcel for 2 automatic and 3 self-serve auto wash
bays in a General Retail Business
District.
The following appeals were Postponed:
None.
On Monday, September 9, 2002, in
Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on Tuesday, September
3, 2002, and said decisions were
adopted and approved in Executive
Session on September 9, 2002:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 02-203: 8400 Franklin
Avenue
Tesco, Inc. appealed to construct
three 18' x 36' three-story frame
attached townhouse units and two
18' x 36' three-story frame attached
townhouse units totaling eight units
and to renovate a 26' x 36' carriage
house on a 102' x 169' parcel in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-204: 1667 East 40th
Street
Loftworks,
LLC
appealed
to
change the use of a three-story
warehouse building into loft condominiums, office and retail space in
a Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 02-206: 2025 West 65th
Street
Colman Court Elderly appealed to
construct a 142' x 148' four-story
masonry 33 unit elderly housing
facility in a General Retail Business
District.
Calendar No. 02-228: 11505-07 Ohlman
Avenue
Michelle Hall appealed to enclose
a 6' x 22' second story front porch
of a two family dwelling house in a
Two-Family District.

Calendar No. 02-209: 3036 East 126th
Street
Eloise Scarville, owner, appealed
to install 120 linear feet of 6' high
chain link fencing to the north,
south and east of a 40' x 167' parcel in a Two-Family District.

Calendar No. 02-156: 1115 Norwood
Road
Daniel York, owner, appealed to
change the use of a 45' x 60' twostory 3 dwelling units and a store
building into a total of 7 dwelling
units on a 120' x 149' parcel in a
Two-Family District.

Calendar No. 02-213: 14404 Cleminshaw Avenue
Melvin Runyon, owner, appealed
to install 20 linear feet of 4' high
vinyl picket fencing with a gate and
80 linear feet of 6' high vinyl privacy fencing with a lattice top and
a gate to the south, east and west
of a 62' x 120' parcel in a One-Family District.

Calendar No. 02-201: Appeal of Herbert L. Allen
Herbert L. Allen appealed from
the
decision
of
the
Community
Development Department and Division of Neighborhood Development
to deny his application and hold
landbank parcel 102-35-122.

The following appeals were Dismissed:
Calendar No. 02-215: 1845 West 45th
Street
Ryan McKenzie, owner, appealed
to construct a 26' x 42' two-story
single family dwelling house with a
24' x 32' one-story garage on a 73'
x 132' parcel in a Two-Family District.

2047

The following appeal was Denied:

Calendar No. 02-208: 4360 Warner
Road
Isaak Khantsis, owner, and Pastor Yvonne Ware, tenant, appealed
to change the use of a store and one
dwelling unit building into one
dwelling unit and a church in a
Local Retail Business District.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

The City Record

58
REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
OF
FIFTY
DOLLARS
($50.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR
MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING
AT
10:00
A.M.
ON
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2002,
LOCATED ON SITE AT 654 EAST
123RD STREET.

NONE
September 4, 2002 and September 11, 2002

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations
made
on
these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2002
Highland Park and Seneca Golf
Course, for the Division of Research, Planning & Development,
Department of Parks, Recreation
& Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1728-2000.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE OF TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS ($25.00) IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK AND/OR
MONEY ORDER.

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2002
Lubricants, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 908-02, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 17, 2002.

Number 2 Dyed Low Sulfur Diesel
Fuel, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 528-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 22, 2002.
September 11, 2002 and September 18,
2002
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2002
Purchase
& Installation
of
Dishwasher, for the Division of Correction,
Department
of
Public
Health, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1203-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
August 7, 2000.
September 11, 2002 and September 18,
2002

September 4, 2002 and September 11, 2002

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2002

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2002

Phase IIResidential Sound, for the
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 93095, 469-98, 327-00.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00) IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK AND/OR
MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2002 AT 12:00 P.M.,
AT C & S ENGINEERS OF OHIO,
INC., MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM,
LOCATED ONE INTERNATIONAL
PLACE, 20445 EMERALD PARKWAY, SUITE 100, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44135.

Tire Repair Road Service, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 913-02, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 17,
2002.
Towing Services, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 90902, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 17, 2002.
Repair & Maintain Pump Stations,
for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 346-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 22, 2002.
September 4, 2002 and September 11, 2002
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2002
Clark Commons, for the Division of
Research, Planning & Development, Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 1017-2000.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE OF TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS ($25.00) IN THE FORM OF
A CASHIER’S CHECK AND/OR
MONEY ORDER.
September 11, 2002 and September 18,
2002

September 11, 2002 and September 18,
2002
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2002
Paper Products, for the Various
Division
of
City
Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1062-02,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 17, 2002.
September 11, 2002 and September 18,
2002

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2002

Thursday, September 5, 2002

Building Materials, for the Various
Division
of
City
Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 745-01.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2002 AT
10:30 A.M., ROOM 104, DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, CONFERENCE ROOM, LOCATED AT 601
LAKESIDE AVE., CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

Public Safety Committee: 10:00
a.m. — Present: Reed, Chair; Britt,
Vice Chair; Coats, Brady, Jones,
Zone, Conwell. Excused: White, Cimperman.

September 11, 2002 and September 18,
2002

Finance Committee: 9:00 a.m. —
Present: Jackson, Chair; Sweeney,
Vice
Chair;
Westbrook,
Gordon,
Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats, Britt,
Brady, Scott.

September 4, 2002 and September 11, 2002

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2002

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2002

Fire and Extended Insurance Coverage, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1078-02 passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 17, 2002.

Hazeldell School Demolition, for the
Division of Building & Housing,
Department of Economic Development, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1007-A-98.

September 11, 2002

2048

Monday, September 9, 2002
City Planning Committee: 9:00 a.m.
—
Present:
Cimperman,
Chair;
Rybka, Vice Chair; O’Malley, Conwell, Scott. Excused: Lewis, Westbrook.

Tuesday, September 10, 2002
Community and Economic Development Committee: 9:30 a.m. — Pre sent:
Gordon, Chair; Cimperman,
Vice Chair; Reed, Scott, Zone, Lewis,
Jones, Coats. Absent: Cintron.

The City Record

September 11, 2002

59

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Appreciation
Carrington, Paul (Elder) (R 1829-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994

Banners
St. Leo’s Church — St. Leo the Greater Festival (O 1742-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
St. Rocco’s Church — Annual Festival (O 1739-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033

Board of Control — Assessments and Licenses Division
Mailer-folder-inserter machine, office — contract per Ord. 830-02 to Intelligent Mailing
Solutions — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 586-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Information Technology Plan (5 year) — amend Contract #57313 per BOC Res. 559-02 and Ord.
1582-02 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 587-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Decker Avenue, 7516 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-04-066 — to Joe Staton and Beulah Staton per Ord.
1122-02 (BOC Res. 604-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045
East 156th Street, 144, Brown Street and Brookfield Avenue (Ward 11) — PPN
112-14-031/066/075/084 — to Northeast Shores Development Corporation per Ord.
1123-02 (BOC Res. 601-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045
East 45th Street, 1630 (Ward 13) — PPN 104-27-018 — to Stanley L. Marszal
(BOC Res. 606-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046
East 46th Street, 2207 and East 61st Street, 2370 (Ward 5) — PPN 103-25-027/103-29-087 —
to Burten, Bell Carr Development, Inc. per Ord. 1381-02
(BOC Res. 599-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Melrose Avenue, 8005 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-19-046 — to Laverne Nixon and Arthur Nixon, Jr.
per Ord. 784-02 (BOC Res. 598-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Thames Avenue and Sylvia Avenue (Ward 10) — various parcels for Thames Park expansion —
to Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties per Ord. 210-2000
(BOC Res. 607-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046
Union Avenue, 10208 (Ward 3) — PPN 135-03-010 — to Evelyn J. Waldron per Ord. 2093-01
(BOC Res. 600-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Wagner Avenue, 7306 (Ward 5) — PPN 124-24-032 — to William King per Ord. 684-02
(BOC Res. 602-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045
West 112th Street, 1494 and West 89th Street, 1343 (Ward 18) — PPN 001-23-080/001-08-103 —
to Cudell Improvement, Inc. per Ord. 1383-02 (BOC Res. 605-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045
Zoeter Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 106-09-038/066 — to New Mt. Zion Baptist Church
per Ord. 1203-02 (BOC Res. 603-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045

Board of Control — Correction Division
Dishwasher upgrade — per Ord. 1202-2000 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public Health
(BOC Res. 593-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043

Board of Control — Environment Division
Larvicide briquettes — per Ord. 537-02 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public Health
(BOC Res. 592-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043

Board of Control — Finance Department
Mailer-folder-inserter machine, office — contract per Ord. 830-02 to Intelligent Mailing
Solutions — Division of Assessments and Licenses (BOC Res. 586-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042

2049

The City Record

60

September 11, 2002

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Decker Avenue, 7516 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-04-066 — to Joe Staton and Beulah Staton per Ord.
1122-02 (BOC Res. 604-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045
East 156th Street, 144, Brown Street and Brookfield Avenue (Ward 11) — PPN
112-14-031/066/075/084 — to Northeast Shores Development Corporation per Ord.
1123-02 (BOC Res. 601-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045
East 45th Street, 1630 (Ward 13) — PPN 104-27-018 — to Stanley L. Marszal
(BOC Res. 606-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046
East 46th Street, 2207 and East 61st Street, 2370 (Ward 5) — PPN 103-25-027/103-29-087 —
to Burten, Bell Carr Development, Inc. per Ord. 1381-02
(BOC Res. 599-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Melrose Avenue, 8005 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-19-046 — to Laverne Nixon and Arthur Nixon, Jr.
per Ord. 784-02 (BOC Res. 598-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Thames Avenue and Sylvia Avenue (Ward 10) — various parcels for Thames Park expansion to Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties per Ord. 210-2000
(BOC Res. 607-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046
Union Avenue, 10208 (Ward 3) — PPN 135-03-010 — to Evelyn J. Waldron per Ord. 2093-01
(BOC Res. 600-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Wagner Avenue, 7306 (Ward 5) — PPN 124-24-032 — to William King per Ord. 684-02
(BOC Res. 602-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045
West 112th Street, 1494 and West 89th Street, 1343 (Ward 18) — PPN 001-23-080/001-08-103 —
to Cudell Improvement, Inc. per Ord. 1383-02 (BOC Res. 605-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045
Zoeter Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 106-09-038/066 — to New Mt. Zion Baptist Church
per Ord. 1203-02 (BOC Res. 603-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 3)
Union Avenue, 10208 (Ward 3) — PPN 135-03-010 — to Evelyn J. Waldron per Ord. 2093-01
(BOC Res. 600-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 5)
East 46th Street, 2207 and East 61st Street, 2370 (Ward 5) — PPN 103-25-027/103-29-087 —
to Burten, Bell Carr Development, Inc. per Ord. 1381-02
(BOC Res. 599-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Wagner Avenue, 7306 (Ward 5) — PPN 124-24-032 — to William King per Ord. 684-02
(BOC Res. 602-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 7)
Decker Avenue, 7516 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-04-066 — to Joe Staton and Beulah Staton per Ord.
1122-02 (BOC Res. 604-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045
Melrose Avenue, 8005 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-19-046 — to Laverne Nixon and Arthur Nixon, Jr.
per Ord. 784-02 (BOC Res. 598-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Zoeter Avenue (Ward 7) — PPN 106-09-038/066 — to New Mt. Zion Baptist Church
per Ord. 1203-02 (BOC Res. 603-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 10)
Thames Avenue and Sylvia Avenue (Ward 10) — various parcels for Thames Park expansion —
to Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties per Ord. 210-2000
(BOC Res. 607-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 11)
East 156th Street, 144, Brown Street and Brookfield Avenue (Ward 11) — PPN
112-14-031/066/075/084 — to Northeast Shores Development Corporation per Ord.
1123-02 (BOC Res. 601-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 13)
East 45th Street, 1630 (Ward 13) — PPN 104-27-018 — to Stanley L. Marszal
(BOC Res. 606-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046

2050

September 11, 2002

The City Record

61

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 18)
West 112th Street, 1494 and West 89th Street, 1343 (Ward 18) — PPN 001-23-080/001-08-103 —
to Cudell Improvement, Inc. per Ord. 1383-02 (BOC Res. 605-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2045

Board of Control — Park Maintenance and Properties Division
Tree planting — contract per Ord. 1115-02 to East Ohio Grass Company, Inc. — Dept.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 596-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Tree planting — contract per Ord. 1115-02 to General Tree Service — Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 591-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043
Tree planting — contract per Ord. 1115-02 to Licursi Company, Inc. — Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 595-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043
Tree planting — contract per Ord. 1115-02 to Perfecturf, Inc. — Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 597-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Thames Avenue and Sylvia Avenue (Ward 10) — various parcels for Thames Park expansion —
to Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties per Ord. 210-2000
(BOC Res. 607-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046
Tree planting — contract per Ord. 1115-02 to East Ohio Grass Company, Inc. — Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties (BOC Res. 596-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Tree planting — contract per Ord. 1115-02 to General Tree Service — Division of Park
Maintenance and Properties (BOC Res. 591-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043
Tree planting — contract per Ord. 1115-02 to Licursi Company, Inc. — Division
of Park Maintenance and Properties (BOC Res. 595-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043
Tree planting — contract per Ord. 1115-02 to Perfecturf, Inc. — Division
of Park Maintenance and Properties (BOC Res. 597-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Information Technology Plan (5 year) — amend Contract #57313 per BOC Res. 559-02 and Ord.
1582-02 — Divisions of Cleveland Public Power and Water Pollution Control, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 587-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042
Western Avenue rehabilitation (West Blvd. to W. 117th St.) — amend BOC Res. 421-02 —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 591-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043

Board of Control — Public Health Department
Dishwasher upgrade — per Ord. 1202-2000 — all bids rejected — Division of Correction
(BOC Res. 593-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043
Larvicide briquettes — per Ord. 537-02 — all bids rejected — Division of Environment
(BOC Res. 592-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043
Board of Control — Public Service Department
Western Avenue rehabilitation (West Blvd. to W. 117th St.) — amend BOC Res. 421-02
(BOC Res. 591-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043
Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Biological testing media and appurtenances — contract per C.O.Sec. 129.28 to IDEXX
Distribution Corporation — Division of Water (BOC Res. 590-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043
Catch basins and manholes repair — contract per Ord. 386-02 to Perk Co., Inc. — Division
of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 588-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042
Information Technology Plan (5 year) — amend Contract #57313 per BOC Res. 559-02 and Ord.
1582-02 — Divisions of Cleveland Public Power and Water Pollution Control
(BOC Res. 587-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042
Roofs, repair and replace — contract per Ord. 1147-01 to Weatherproofing Technologies,
Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 589-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Biological testing media and appurtenances — contract per C.O.Sec. 129.28 to IDEXX
Distribution Corporation — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 590-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043
Catch basins and manholes repair — contract per Ord. 386-02 to Perk Co., Inc. — Division
of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 588-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042

2051

The City Record

62

September 11, 2002

Roofs, repair and replace — contract per Ord. 1147-01 to Weatherproofing Technologies,
Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 589-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042
Tree planting — contract per Ord. 1115-02 to East Ohio Grass Company, Inc. — Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 596-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Tree planting — contract per Ord. 1115-02 to General Tree Service — Division of Park
Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 591-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043
Tree planting — contract per Ord. 1115-02 to Licursi Company, Inc. — Division
of Park Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 595-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043
Tree planting — contract per Ord. 1115-02 to Perfecturf, Inc. — Division
of Park Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 597-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2044
Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Mailer-folder-inserter machine, office — contract per Ord. 830-02 to Intelligent Mailing
Solutions — Division of Assessments and Licenses, Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 586-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042
Board of Control — Thames Park
Thames Avenue and Sylvia Avenue (Ward 10) — various parcels for Thames Park expansion —
to Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties per Ord. 210-2000
(BOC Res. 607-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046

Board of Control — Water Division
Biological testing media and appurtenances — contract per C.O.Sec. 129.28 to IDEXX
Distribution Corporation — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 590-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2043
Roofs, repair and replace — contract per Ord. 1147-01 to Weatherproofing Technologies,
Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 589-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042
Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Catch basins and manholes repair — contract per Ord. 386-02 to Perk Co., Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 588-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042
Information Technology Plan (5 year) — amend Contract #57313 per BOC Res. 559-02 and Ord.
1582-02 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 587-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2042
Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Allen, Herbert L. – appeal denied and adopted on 09/09/02 (Cal. 02-201) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
Berea Road, 3228, (Ward 20) – Michael Baker, owner — appeal heard on 09/09/02
(Cal. 02-211) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
Broadway Avenue, 9901, (Ward 2) – John P. Papouras, owner, and Sprint/North Coast
Communications, tenant, c/o Rob Armstrong, agent — appeal dismissed on 09/09/02
(Cal. 02-118) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
Cleminshaw Avenue, 14404, (Ward 20) – Melvin S. Runyon, owner — appeal withdrawn on
09/09/02 (Cal. 02-213) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
Columbus Road, 2013, (Ward 14) – Morgan Services, Inc., owners c/o Lawrence Cooper, agent —
appeal dismissed on 09/09/02 (Cal. 02-214) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
East 112th Street, 3586, (Ward 3) – Charles and Rachel Lesley, owner c/o Vanessa Jeter,
agent — appeal heard on 09/09/02 (Cal. 02-170) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
East 113th Street, 1147, (Ward 9) – James D. Boddy, owner — appeal heard on 09/09/02
(Cal. 02-217) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
East 126th Street, 3036, (Ward 4) – Eloise Scarville, owner — appeal withdrawn on
09/09/02 (Cal. 02-209) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
East 40th Street, 1667, (Ward 13) – Loftworks, LLC, owner c/o Brian Fabo, agent — appeal
granted and adopted on 09/09/02 (Cal. 02-204) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
Franklin Avenue, 8400, (Ward 17) – Tesco, Inc., owners c/o Justin Fliegel, agent — appeal
granted and adopted on 09/09/02 (Cal. 02-203) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
Harvard Avenue, 14401, (Ward 1) – George Clement, owner, and Joe Sanders, tenant — appeal
heard on 09/09/02 (Cal. 02-163) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
Miles Avenue, 11417, (Ward 2) – Mystic Knights, Inc. dba Camelot Town Hall c/o
Robert Dunn — appeal heard on 09/09/02 (Cal. 02-216) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
Norwood Road, 1115, (Ward 13) – Daniel York, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
09/09/02 (Cal. 02-156) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047

2052

September 11, 2002

The City Record

Ohlman Avenue, 11505-07, (Ward 9) – Michelle Williams Hall, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 09/09/02 (Cal. 02-228) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triskett Road, 15255, (Ward 21) – Ohio Leitina Company, owner c/o Bruce Meade, and Helen
Lentz, prospective purchaser — appeal dismissed on 09/09/02 (Cal. 02-183) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warner Road, 4360, (Ward 12) – Isaak Khantsis, owner c/o Pastor Yvonne Ware, tenant —
appeal denied and adopted on 09/09/02 (Cal. 02-208). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 118th Street, 3375, (Ward 19) – Hanna Gereby, owner — appeal heard on 09/09/02
(Cal. 02-212) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 45th Street, 1845, (Ward 13) – Ryan McKenzie, owner — appeal dismissed on 09/09/02
(Cal. 02-215) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 65th Street, 2025, (Ward 17) – Colman Court Elderly, owners c/o Catholic Charities
Facilities and Maryellen Staab — appeal granted and adopted on 09/09/02
(Cal. 02-206) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Cass Avenue, 5501, (Ward 17) – HKM Direct Market Communication, Inc., owner c/o
Nancy Borchert, agent — appeal to be heard on 09/23/02 (Cal. 02-232) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Douse Avenue, 4460, (Ward 5) – S.C. Baumgartner, executor of the Estate of Mary K.
Brumfield — appeal to be heard on 09/23/02 (Cal. 02-226) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 113th Street, 4140, (Ward 2) – Judge Carter, owner — appeal to be heard on 09/23/02
(Cal. 02-229) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Iowa Avenue, 12119, (Ward 10) – Adell and Mary Hobson, owners — appeal to be heard
on 09/23/02 (Cal. 02-227) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kildeer Avenue, 19108, (Ward 11) – Ante Valentic, owner — appeal to be heard on 9/23/02
(Cal. 02-234) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Platt Avenue, 7400, (Ward 5) – Mount Herman Good Samaritan Foundation, owner c/o Nancy
Borchert, agent — appeal to be heard on 09/23/02 (Cal. 02-233) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 162nd Street, 3309, (Ward 21) – Raymond A. Murray, owner — appeal to be heard
on 09/23/02 (Cal. 02-230) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2047
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2046

Bonds
Taxable Urban Revenue Temporary Refunding Bonds — issuance and sale — $4,350,000.00
(O 1709-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1995
Budget
Tax Budget — 2003 (R 1733-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2009
Case Western Reserve University
CWRU Magazine — Summer Issue (F 1770-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Central Business District
Erection of tents in the Central Business District — amend Sec. 3123.09
(O 1724-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004
City of Cleveland Bids
Building materials — Department of Finance — per Ord. 745-01 — bid due September 27,
2002(advertised 9/11/2002 and 9/18/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Commons — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties — Division of Research,
Planning and Development — per Ord. 1017-2000 — bid due September 25, 2002
(advertised 9/11/2002 and 9/18/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diesel fuel, No. 2 Dyed Low Sulfur — Department of Public Utilities — Division of
Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 528-02 — bid due October 2, 2002
(advertised 9/11/2002 and 9/18/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dishwasher — Department of Public Health — Division of Correction — per Ord. 1203-2000 —
bid due October 4, 2002(advertised 9/11/2002 and 9/18/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hazeldell School demolition — Department of Economic Development — Division of Building
and Housing — per Ord. 1007-A-98 — bid due September 25, 2002
(advertised 9/4/2002 and 9/11/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Highland Park and Seneca Golf Course improvements — Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties — Division of Research, Planning and Development — per Ord. 1728-2000 bid due September 18, 2002 (advertised 9/4/2002 and 9/11/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance, fire and extended — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 1078-02 — bid due October 2, 2002
(advertised 9/11/2002 and 9/18/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2053

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048

The City Record

64

September 11, 2002

Lubricants — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per Ord. 908-02 — bid due September 26, 2002
(advertised 9/4/2002 and 9/11/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048
Paper products — Department of Finance — per Ord. 1062-02 — bid due October 10,
2002 (advertised 9/11/2002 and 9/18/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048
Pump stations, repair and maintain — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water
Pollution Control — per Ord. 346-02 — bid due September 27, 2002
(advertised 9/4/2002 and 9/11/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048
Residential Sound Insulation Program (RSIP), Phase II — Department of Port Control —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — per Ord. 930-95, 469-98 and
327-2000 — bid due October 9, 2002 (advertised 9/11/2002 and 9/18/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048
Tire repair road service — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per Ord. 913-02 — bid due September 27, 2002
(advertised 9/4/2002 and 9/11/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048
Towing services — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance —
per Ord. 909-02 — bid due September 27, 2002 (advertised 9/4/2002 and 9/11/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2048
City Council
Archival storage and retrieval systems and equipment — purchase (O 1744-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
City Planning Commission
Detroit Ave. N., W. 24th St., E., Superior Viaduct, S., Mulberry St., W. — change the
zoning — General Retail District and a PUD Overlay District (O 1729-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008
E. 105th St., W. & Ashbury Rd., S. — change the zoning — RA-2 Townhouse District
(O 1732-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2009
John Edwards House — designating — Cleveland Landmark (O 1728-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2006
Lakeside Ave., 2323 — change the zoning (O 1731-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008
W. 20th St., W. & Abbey Ave., N. — change the zoning (O 1730-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008
W. 53rd St., Walworth Ave., S.E., Fenwick Ave., S.E., Junction Rd., S.E. & Railroad
tracks — Planned Unit Development (PUB) Overlay District (O 1812-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
Clerk of Council
National Urban Fellows, Inc. — agreement — mentoring program (O 1741-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Security checkpoints — emergency upgrade and relocation (O 1717-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2002
Towing services — purchase (O 1259-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040-T

Cleveland Public Power
Street lighting bases and pull boxes — amend Sec. 2 of Ord. No. 746-2000
(O 1743-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Codified Ordinances
Littering — penalty — amend Sec. 613.99 (O 1722-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004
Parking Fees — amend Section 133.33 (O 1760-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2006
Tents, erection of — amend Section — 3123.09 — Central Business District
(O 1724-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004
Communications
Basile Baumann Prost & Associates, Inc. — agreement — West Side Market rent evaluation
— Parks, Recreation and Properties (F 1769-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Bridge replacement — Copy of Project No. 251-02 — Ohio Department of Transportation
(F 1764-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Broadview Heights, City of — Copy of Res. No. 02-63 (F 1775-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
CWRU Magazine — Summer Issue — Case Western Reserve University (F 1770-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Health Wise, A Quarterly Publication — Summer 2002 — Health Museum (F 1767-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
North Royalton City — National Safety Appreciation Day — Res. 02-103 (F 1773-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Pesticide Spraying — Mayor’s Emergency Requisition/Purchase orders — Department
of Health (F 1765-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Runway 5L/23R — application for federal assistance — Dep. of Port Control (F 1766-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Runway 5L/23R, Phase II — copy of Grant Agreement — Project No. 3-39-0023-6002 — Port
Control (F 1771-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993

2054

The City Record

September 11, 2002

65

Sound Insulation for Islamic Mosque (formally West Side Alliance Church) — Copy of grant
application — federal assistance (F 1774-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Sound Insulation Map — Residential— Port Control (F 1768-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Sound Insulation Program — Residential— copy of grant application — federal assistance
(F 1772-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
U.S. Route 6A — 6.00 State Project — Cuyahoga County — Ohio Department of
Transportation (F 1776-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Community Development
Community Development programs — memoranda of understanding — public, private or
governmental agencies or entities (O 1725-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004
Kirby Manor Elderly/Multi-family Rehabilitation Project — amend Ord. 1426-02 — Ward
18 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1751-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Condolences
Buchanan, Verland Lee (R 1813-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Cintron, Jose A. (R 1801-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Cotton, Archie (R 1803-02) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debruge, Charles Louis (R 1808-02) . . .
Godfrey, Theodore Eugene (R 1805-02)
Grandillo, James J. (Fr.) (R 1811-02) . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

Harris, Dorothy E. (R 1804-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lawler Tompkins, Evelyn Thomas (R 1806-02)
McCormick, Bud (R 1812-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McKinney, LaLena (R 1809-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994

Morton, Reginald Harrison, Jr. (R 1807-02)
Thomas, Rita J. (R 1802-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tucker, Louise B. (R 1800-02) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Yamahiro, Grace (R 1810-02) . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994

Bea Cain, Ollie (Mrs.) (R 1814-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bussey, Jean Marie (R 1817-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flagg, Melrose (R 1819-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marous Brothers Construction Company (R 1816-02) .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994

Previte, Lawrence & Anna (R 1818-02) . .
St. Nicolas Church (R 1815-02) . . . . . . . . .
The Hodge Family Reunion (R 1820-02).
Traditions Care Center (R 1821-02) . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1994
1994
1994
1994

Congratulations

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

Contracts
Boston Mills Ski Resort, Inc. — youth ski lessons — 2003 ski season (O 1723-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004
Cudell Improvement
Kirby Manor Elderly/Multi-family Rehabilitation Project — amend Ord. 1426-02 — Ward
18 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1751-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036

Drugs
Prescription drug prices — discount plan — seniors — support — Prescription Drug Fair
Pricing Act (R 1756-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
Economic Development Department
Clean Ohio Assessment Grants — Phase II environmental assessments — Slavic
Village/Broadway Corridor in Wards 2 and 12 (O 1752-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
SATRAJ, Ltd. — sell City-owned property — Block H, Parcel B — Cleveland Industrial
Park (O 1727-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2005
STRAJ, Ltd. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Block H, Parcel B — acquire and redevelop
— Cleveland Industrial Park (O 1726-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2005
Enterprise Zone Agreement
STRAJ, Ltd. — Block H, Parcel B — acquire and redevelop — Cleveland Industrial Park (O 1726-02) . . . . . . . . . . 2005

2055

The City Record

66

September 11, 2002

Finance Department
Envelope press — one high speed — purchase — Division of Printing and Reproduction
(O 1715-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2002
Fasteners — purchase — various divisions (O 1065-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040-2041
Lamps — purchase — various divisions (O 1063-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040-2041
Paging and wireless service — CIty-wide — purchase — Division of Information Systems
Services (O 1714-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2001
Paint and paint supplies — purchase — various divisions (O 1060-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
Paper and cloth wipers — purchase — various divisions (O 1064-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040-2041
Paper drill — purchase — Division of Printing and Reproduction (O 1712-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2001
Printer/scanning system — purchase — Division of Printing and Reproduction
(O 1711-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2001
Tax Budget — 2003 (R 1733-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2009
Taxable Urban Revenue Temporary Refunding Bonds — issuance and sale — $4,350,000.00
(O 1709-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1995
Telephones, products and ancillary equipment — maintenance — Division of Information
Systems Services (O 1713-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2001
Typewriters maintenance — purchase — various divisions (O 1061-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040

Grants
Clean Ohio Assessment Grants — Phase II environmental assessments — Slavic
Village/Broadway Corridor in Wards 2 and 12 (O 1752-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Health Department
Pesticide Spraying — Mayor’s Emergency Requisition/Purchase orders (F 1765-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Health Museum
Health Wise, A Quarterly Publication — Summer 2002 (F 1767-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993

Hermes Race Systems
Critters Walk — permit (O 1736-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032
Get Fit With Firemen — permit (O 1737-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032
Jake the Rock — permit (O 1738-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033

Information System Services Division
Paging and wireless service — CIty-wide — purchase (O 1714-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2001
Telephones, products and ancillary equipment — maintenance (O 1713-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2001
Landmark Commission
John Edwards House — designating (O 1728-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2006

Law Department
Software-update package — purchase (O 1710-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2001
Liquor Permits
Bridge Ave., 4810 — new (Ward 17) (F 1777-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Bridge Ave., 4810 — objection (Ward 17) (R 1762-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
Cedar Ave., 7904 — objection — withdraw (Ward 6) (R 1754-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
E. 105th St., 1208 — transfer (Ward 8) (F 1792-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
E. 105th St., 1208 — transfer (Ward 8) (F 1791-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
E. 21st St., 1417-1423 & Rockwell Ave., 2112 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 1793-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
E. 40th St., 2474 — objection (Ward 5) (R 1758-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038
E. 40th St., 2474 — transfer (Ward 5) (F 1782-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
E. 93rd St., 3363 — transfer (Ward 5) (F 1783-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Lake Ave., 8701 — transfer (Ward 18) (F 1780-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Lakewood Heights Blvd., 13933 — transfer (Ward 19) (F 1787-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Merwin St., 1575 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 1790-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Mt. Auburn Rd., 9621 — objection (Ward 4) (R 1761-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2039
Mt. Auburn Rd., 9621 — transfer (Ward 4) (F 1779-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Murray Hill Rd., 2181 — objection (Ward 6) (R 1753-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036

2056

September 11, 2002

The City Record

67

Old River Rd., 1057 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 1781-02) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Rd., 4920-22 — transfer (Ward 16) (F 1785-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4142 — new (Ward 20) (F 1778-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 117th St., 3387 — transfer (Ward 19) (F 1788-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 130th St., 4200 — objection — withdraw (Ward 19) (R 1763-02) .
W. 150th St., 4280 & I-71 — new (Ward 20) (F 1784-02) . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 25th St., 1957 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 1789-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 25th St., 2700 — agency application (Ward 14) (F 1794-02) . . . . .
W. 25th St., 2700 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 1786-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1994
1994
1994
1994
2039
1994
1994
1994
1994

Memoranda of Understanding
Community Development programs — public, private or governmental agencies or entities
(O 1725-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004
Neighborhood Equity Funds
Kirby Manor Elderly/Multi-family Rehabilitation Project — amend Ord. 1426-02 — Ward
18 (O 1751-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Oath of Office
Brown, Genesis O. — Secretary to the Director of Personnel and Human Resources
(F 1797-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Bridge replacement — Copy of Project No. 251-02 (F 1764-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
U.S. Route 6A — 6.00 State Project — Cuyahoga County (F 1776-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Archmere Park Tennis Court Improvements — Contract PI #59472 (F 1796-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Basile Baumann Prost & Associates, Inc. — agreement — West Side Market rent evaluation
(F 1769-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boston Mills Ski Resort, Inc. — contract — youth ski lessons — 2003 ski season
(O 1723-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parking Fees — amend Section 133.33 (O 1760-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tuland Park Site Improvements — Contract PI #56803 (F 1795-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2006
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994

Peddlers
Muhammad, Steven (Hill) — Ward 5 (O 1745-02)
Munas, Jim — Ward 20 (O 1750-02) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Orr, Robert Jr. — Ward 5 (O 1747-02). . . . . . . . . . .
Robinson, Rolonda — Ward 8 (O 1749-02) . . . . . .
Rousseau, Siene — Ward 5 (O 1746-02) . . . . . . . . .
Wilson, Antonio — Ward 5 (O 1748-02) . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

2034
2035
2035
2035
2035
2035

Permits
10th and St. Clair, LLC — right-of-way — sheet piling for construction of their
building. (O 1719-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Critters Walk — Cleveland and Hermes Race Systems (O 1736-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Erection of tents in the Central Business District — amend Sec. 3123.09
(O 1724-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Get Fit With Firemen — Hermes Race Systems (O 1737-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hilton Garden Inn — 1100 Carnegie L.P., General Partners — right-of-way — directional
sign (O 1718-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jake the Rock — Hermes Race Systems (O 1738-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Ignatius/Cats in the Flats — St. Ignatius High School (O 1740-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033

Personnel Department
Brown, Genesis O. — oath of office — Secretary to the Director of Personnel and Human
Resources (F 1797-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Plats
Erieside Ave. N. E. — Dedication Plat — (Ward 13) (F 1799-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
W. 73rd St. & Denison Ave. S.W. — Dedication Plat — (Ward 17) (F 1798-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994

2057

The City Record

68

September 11, 2002

Port Control Department
National Aeronautics and Space Administration — 20900 Brookpark Rd — transfer of
City-owned property (O 1716-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2002
Runway 5L/23R — application for federal assistance (F 1766-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Runway 5L/23R, Phase II — copy of Grant Agreement — Project No. 3-39-0023-6002
(F 1771-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Security checkpoints — emergency upgrade and relocation — Cleveland Hopkins Airport
(O 1717-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2002
Servisair, Inc. — jetbridges — purchase — reimburse (O 1098-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040-T
Sound Insulation for Islamic Mosque (formally West Side Alliance Church) — Copy of grant
application — federal assistance (F 1774-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Sound Insulation Map — Residential (F 1768-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Sound Insulation Program — Residential— copy of grant application — federal assistance
(F 1772-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Towing services — purchase — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1259-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040-T
Printing and Reproduction Division
Envelope press — one high speed — purchase (O 1715-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2002
Paper drill — purchase (O 1712-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2001
Printer/scanning system — purchase (O 1711-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2001
Purchases and Supplies Division
Pesticide Spraying — Mayor’s Emergency Requisition/Purchase orders — Department
of Health (F 1765-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Recognition
Brown, Echo (R 1822-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dupree, Cal (R 1825-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eaton, Catherine (R 1823-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pennington, David Arthur (R 1826-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rodriguez, Benvienido (R 1827-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Women’s Center of Greater Cleveland (R 1828-02) .
Walker, Cedric (R 1824-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Cargill Deicing Technology — restore former strikers — urging Mayor to refrain from
purchasing salt (R 1755-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pancreatic cancer — research —urging U.S. Congress — name research Gloria Rollins
Conwell (R 1757-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prescription drug prices — discount plan — seniors — support — Prescription Drug Fair
Pricing Act (R 1756-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reverse 911 system — use — urging the Mayor and Director of Safety — initiate a pilot
program (R 1735-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Spirit of the American Family Day — designating September 11th (R 1759-02). . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2038

Right-of-Way
10th and St. Clair, LLC — permit — sheet piling for construction of their building (O 1719-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003
Hilton Garden Inn — permit — 1100 Carnegie L.P., General Partners — directional sign (O 1718-02). . . . . . . . . . . 2003
Safety Department
Reverse 911 system — use — urging the Mayor and Director of Safety — initiate a pilot
program (R 1735-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032
Service Department
10th and St. Clair, LLC — permit — right-of-way — sheet piling for construction of
their building. (O 1719-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crack sealing material — amend Sec. 3 of Ord. No. 610-01 (O 1721-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 190th St./Evanston Ave. — grinding and resurfacing — installation of ADA ramps. —
agreement — City of Warrensville Heights (O 1720-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hilton Garden Inn — permit — 1100 Carnegie L.P., General Partners — right-of-way —
directional sign (O 1718-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Leo’s Church — banner — St. Leo the Greater Festival (O 1742-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Rocco’s Church — 17-banners — Annual Festival (O 1739-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2058

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033

September 11, 2002

The City Record

69

Slavic Village Development Corporation
Clean Ohio Assessment Grants — Phase II environmental assessments — Slavic
Village/Broadway Corridor in Wards 2 and 12 (O 1752-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
St. Leo’s Church
St. Leo the Greater Festival — banner (O 1742-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Statement of Work Acceptance
Archmere Park Tennis Court Improvements — Contract PI #59472 — Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (F 1796-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Tuland Park Site Improvements — Contract PI #56803 — Parks, Recreation and Properties
(F 1795-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Street Lighting
Street lighting bases and pull boxes — amend Sec. 2 of Ord. No. 746-2000
(O 1743-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Street Vacation
W. 27th Pl. & Oriole Ct — intention to vacate (R 1734-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032
Tabled Legislation
Servisair, Inc. — jetbridges — purchase — reimburse (O 1098-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040-T
Towing services — purchase — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1259-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040-T
Tents
Tents, erection of — amend Section — 3123.09 — Central Business District
(O 1724-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2004
Utilities Department
Street lighting bases and pull boxes — amend Sec. 2 of Ord. No. 746-2000
(O 1743-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Ward 01
E. 190th St./Evanston Ave. — grinding and resurfacing — installation of ADA ramps. —
agreement — City of Warrensville Heights (O 1720-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Flagg, Melrose — congratulation (R 1819-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SATRAJ, Ltd. — sell City-owned property — Block H, Parcel B — Cleveland Industrial
Park (O 1727-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
STRAJ, Ltd. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Block H, Parcel B — acquire and redevelop
— Cleveland Industrial Park (O 1726-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2005
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2005

Ward 02
Clean Ohio Assessment Grants — Phase II environmental assessments — Slavic
Village/Broadway Corridor in Wards 2 and 12 (O 1752-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Ward 04
McKinney, LaLena — condolence (R 1809-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Auburn Rd., 9621 — objection — liquor permit (R 1761-02)
Mt. Auburn Rd., 9621 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1779-02) .
The Hodge Family Reunion — congratulation (R 1820-02) . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1994
2039
1994
1994

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1994
. 2038
. 1994
. 1994
. 2034
. 2035
. 2035
. 1994
. 2035

Ward 05
Carrington, Paul (Elder) — appreciation (R 1829-02) . . .
E. 40th St., 2474 — objection — liquor permit (R 1758-02)
E. 40th St., 2474 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1782-02) .
E. 93rd St., 3363 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1783-02) .
Muhammad, Steven (Hill) — peddling — (O 1745-02) . . .
Orr, Robert Jr. — peddling — (O 1747-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rousseau, Siene — peddling —(O 1746-02). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tucker, Louise B. — condolence (R 1800-02) . . . . . . . . . . .
Wilson, Antonio — peddling — (O 1748-02) . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

2059

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

The City Record

70

September 11, 2002

Ward 06
Brown, Echo — recognition (R 1822-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Cedar Ave., 7904 — objection — withdraw (R 1754-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2037
Murray Hill Rd., 2181 — objection — liquor permit (R 1753-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Ward 07
Bea Cain, Ollie (Mrs.) — congratulation (R 1814-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Ward 08
E. 105th St., 1208 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1792-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 105th St., 1208 — transfer (Ward 8) (F 1791-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 105th St., W. & Ashbury Rd., S. — change the zoning — RA-2 Townhouse District
(O 1732-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lawler Tompkins, Evelyn Thomas — condolence (R 1806-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morton, Reginald Harrison, Jr. — condolence (R 1807-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Robinson, Rolonda — peddling (O 1749-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

2009
1994
1994
2035

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994

Ward 09
Dupree, Cal — recognition (R 1825-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Godfrey, Theodore Eugene — condolence (R 1805-02).
Harris, Dorothy E. — condolence (R 1804-02) . . . . . . . .
Walker, Cedric — recognition (R 1824-02) . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

Ward 10
Cotton, Archie — condolence (R 1803-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Thomas, Rita J. — condolence (R 1802-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Ward 11
Grandillo, James J. (Fr.) — condolence (R 1811-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Previte, Lawrence & Anna — congratulation (R 1818-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Ward 12
Clean Ohio Assessment Grants — Phase II environmental assessments — Slavic
Village/Broadway Corridor in Wards 2 and 12 (O 1752-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
Ward 13
10th and St. Clair, LLC — permit — right-of-way — sheet piling for construction of
their building. (O 1719-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bussey, Jean Marie — congratulation (R 1817-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Critters Walk — permit — Cleveland and Hermes Race Systems (O 1736-02) . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave. N., W. 24th St., E., Superior Viaduct, S., Mulberry St., W. — change the
zoning — General Retail District and a PUD Overlay District (O 1729-02) . . . . . . . . .
E. 21st St., 1417-1423 & Rockwell Ave., 2112 — transfer — liquor permit (Ward 13)
(F 1793-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Erieside Ave. N. E. — Dedication Plat (F 1799-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Get Fit With Firemen — permit — Hermes Race Systems (O 1737-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hilton Garden Inn — permit — 1100 Carnegie L.P., General Partners — right-of-way —
directional sign (O 1718-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jake the Rock — permit — Hermes Race Systems (O 1738-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave., 2323 — change the zoning (O 1731-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marous Brothers Construction Company — congratulation (R 1816-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Merwin St., 1575 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1790-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Rd., 1057 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1781-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pennington, David Arthur — recognition (R 1826-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rodriguez, Benvienido — recognition (R 1827-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Nicolas Church — congratulation (R 1815-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 20th St., W. & Abbey Ave., N. — change the zoning (O 1730-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 27th Pl. & Oriole Ct — intention to vacate (R 1734-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2003
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2032
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 2003
. 2033
. 2008
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 1994
. 2008
. 2032

Ward 14
Cintron, Jose A. — condolence (R 1801-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Eaton, Catherine — recognition (R 1823-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
John Edwards House — designating — Cleveland Landmark (O 1728-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2006

2060

September 11, 2002

The City Record

71

Pennington, David Arthur — recognition (R 1826-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Rodriguez, Benvienido — recognition (R 1827-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
St. Ignatius/Cats in the Flats — permit — St. Ignatius High School (O 1740-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033
St. Rocco’s Church — 17-banners — Annual Festival (O 1739-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2033
W. 25th St., 1957 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1789-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
W. 25th St., 2700 — agency application — liquor permit (F 1794-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
W. 25th St., 2700 — transfer — liquor permit) (F 1786-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
Ward 16
Pearl Rd., 4920-22 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1785-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
St. Leo’s Church — banner — St. Leo the Greater Festival (O 1742-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
Ward 17
Bridge Ave., 4810 — new — liquor permit (F 1777-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Ave., 4810 — objection — liquor permit (R 1762-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buchanan, Verland Lee — condolence (R 1813-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McCormick, Bud — condolence (R 1812-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Women’s Center of Greater Cleveland — recognition (R 1828-02) . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 53rd St., Walworth Ave., S.E., Fenwick Ave., S.E., Junction Rd., S.E. & Railroad
tracks — Planned Unit Development (PUB) Overlay District (O 1812-2000) . . .
W. 73rd St. & Denison Ave. S.W. — Dedication Plat (F 1798-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1994
2039
1994
1994
1994

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2040
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994

Ward 18
Kirby Manor Elderly/Multi-family Rehabilitation Project — amend Ord. 1426-02 —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1751-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lake Ave., 8701 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1780-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Street lighting bases and pull boxes — amend Sec. 2 of Ord. No. 746-2000
(O 1743-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thomas, Rita J. — condolence (R 1802-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Yamahiro, Grace — condolence (R 1810-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2036
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2034
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1994

Ward 19
Lakewood Heights Blvd., 13933 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1787-02) .
W. 117th St., 3387 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1788-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 130th St., 4200 — objection — withdraw (R 1763-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Yamahiro, Grace — condolence (R 1810-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1994
1994
2039
1994

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1994
2035
1994
1994
1994

Ward 20
Debruge, Charles Louis — condolence (R 1808-02) . . . . . . . . .
Munas, Jim — peddling (O 1750-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4142 — new — liquor permit (F 1778-02) . .
Traditions Care Center — congratulation (R 1821-02). . . . . .
W. 150th St., 4280 & I-71 — new — liquor permit (F 1784-02) .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

West Side Market
Basile Baumann Prost & Associates, Inc. — agreement — West Side Market rent evaluation
— Parks, Recreation and Properties (F 1769-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1993
Zoning
Detroit Ave. N., W. 24th St., E., Superior Viaduct, S., Mulberry St., W. — change the
zoning — General Retail District and a PUD Overlay District (O 1729-02) . . . . . .
E. 105th St., W. & Ashbury Rd., S. — change the zoning — RA-2 Townhouse District
(O 1732-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave., 2323 — change the zoning (O 1731-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 20th St., W. & Abbey Ave., N. — change the zoning (O 1730-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2061

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2009
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2008

