The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
May the Fifteenth, Two Thousand and Two

Mayor
Jane L. Campbell
President of Council
Frank G. Jackson
Clerk of Council
Valarie J. McCall
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
39
45
47
47
49
51
51
51
52
63
64

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Frank G. Jackson
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed..........................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell...........................................774 East 131st Street
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr........................................4326 Daisy Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
Matthew Zone ..........................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Terrell Cole, Executive Assistant
Erik Janas, Executive Assistant
Rodney Jenkins, Executive Assistant
David M. McGuirk, Executive Assistant
Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant
Henry Guzman, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44108
44112
44119
44105
44113
44109
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

DEPT. OF LAW – Richard F. Horvath, Acting Director, Galen L. Schuerlein,
Acting Chief Counsel, Room 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Shareen Jackson, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – Joel Nacion, Acting Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Cleo Henderson, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Darnell Brown, Acting Director,
1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Michael G. Konicek, Acting Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie
Avenue.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll, Acting Director, Mural
Building, 1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS: Correction – Robert Tasky, Commissioner, Cleveland
House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
Environment – Michael Krzywicki, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Health – Susan E. Axelrod, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – James A. Draper, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police \ Edward F. Lohn, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES –James Glending,
Acting Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.

Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director, 3rd
Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Sharon Dumas, Commissioner.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES –Eduardo A. Romero,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Greg Huth, Acting Director,
Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, John E. Barnes, Jr., Director;
Mayor Jane L. Campbell, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President;
Rev. Earl Preston, Vice President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Secretary;
Members: Diane M. Downing, Matthew Dotson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Betsy Hruby,
Asst. Sec’y.; _______________, Director; Council President Frank G.
Jackson.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;
Members; Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver-Washington,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room
516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate
Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Richard F.
Horvath, President; Finance Director Betsy Hruby, Secretary; Council
President Frank G. Jackson.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law
Director Richard F. Horvath; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Richard F.
Horvath; Utilities Director Darnell Brown; Council President Frank G.
Jackson.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Christopher S. Ronayne,
Director; Anthony J. Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director, Richard F. Horvath;
Chairman; Finance Director Betsy Hruby; Council President Frank G.
Jackson; Councilman Dona Brady; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman;
Earl S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule,
Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CL EVE LAND LANDMA RKS COMM ISSION – Ro om 5 19 – R i chard
Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush,
James Gibans, Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen
Schuerlein, Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Dwayne J.
Simpson, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Emanuella Groves
12B
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan–Court Administrator,
Paul J. Mizerak–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Gregory F. Clifford–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 15, 2002

Vol. 89

No. 4614

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MAY 13, 2002
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

COMMUNICATIONS

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt,
Dolan, Gordon, Reed, Rybka.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

File No. 872-02.
From Governor Bob Taft’s Office —
confirmation receipt of Resolution
No. 610-02. Received.

VALARIE J. McCALL

1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cintron, Jones,
Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka,
Vice
Chairman,
Conwell,
Lewis,
O’Malley, Scott, Westbrook.

Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, O’Malley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Scott, Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00 P.M. — Public Health Committee: Britt, Chairman; Zone, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Conwell, Gordon,
Scott, Polensek.
1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Scott, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

File No. 873-02.
From The Richard E. Jacobs
Group, Inc. re: Financial Agreements dated July 6, 1998 — Public
Square
North
Community
Urban
Redevelopment Corporation, Mall A
Community Urban Redevelopment
Corporation
and
Memorial
Park
Garage Community Urban Redevelopment Corporation, as amended
(the “Financial Agreements”) pertaining to Tax Abatement for Key
Center. Received.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman; O’Malley, Reed, Sweeney.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

File No. 874-02.
From
the
City
of
Broadview
Heights — copy of Resolution No.
02-34. Received.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

File No. 876-02.
Re:
Objection
to
Assessment
Notice — 18122 Nottingham Road.
Received.

______________

Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, May 13, 2002.
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Conwell,
Dolan,
Gordon,
Johnson,
Jones,
Lewis, O’Malley, Polensek, Reed,
Sweeney, Westbrook, White, Zone.
Also present were Mayor Campbell, Acting Director Horvath, Director Baker, Acting Director Brown,
Director Ricchiuto, Acting Director
Carroll, Acting Director Shade, Acting Director Glending, Acting Director Williams, Director Romero, Acting Director Huth, Director Ronayne, Director Guzman, Director
Barnes, and Chief Tame. Rodney
Jenkins, Executive Assistant to the
Mayor, Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison, John Goersmeyer, Assistant Press Secretary
were also present.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the Council Meeting was opened with
a prayer offered by Rev. Carl A.
Salters of Solomon’s Temple Church,
located at 17100 Miles Avenue in
Ward 1. Pledge of Allegiance.

File No. 875-02.
From
the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority Board of
Directors Meetings — minutes. Received.

File No. 877-02.
From the Building Standards and
Building Appears, Public Hearing
Agenda — Wednesday, May 8, 2002.
Received.
File No. 878-02.
From the Throckley Street Club —
re: new voting location. (Ward 1).
Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 879-02.
Re: New Application — 2447104 —
Egg Harbor, LLC, 1299 West 9th
Street, first floor and basement.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 880-02.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
7763230 — Sawchyn, Inc., 10511
Western Avenue. (Ward 18). Received.

MOTION

File No. 881-02.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
2288380 — Dow Lak, Inc., 2000 Lakeside Avenue, first floor, basement
and patio. (Ward 13). Received.

On the Motion of Council Member
Sweeney, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Lewis.

File No. 882-02.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
5870816 — Metropolis Night Club,
Inc., 2325 Elm Street. (Ward 13).
Received.

989

The City Record

4
File No. 883-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 2447104 — Egg Harbor,
Inc., 1299 West 9th Street, first floor
and basement. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 884-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 8922559 — 3355 West 56th
Street, Inc., 3355-57 West 56th Street.
(Ward 17). Received.
File No. 885-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 4189180 — Jabco, Inc.
Cleveland, d.b.a. Cedar’s Finest, 7904
Cedar Road. (Ward 6). Received.
File No. 886-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 1822001 — Critics Choice,
Inc., first floor, mezzanine & basement, 1505 Euclid Avenue, Ste 115.
(Ward 13). Received.
OATH OF OFFICE
File No. 887-02.
Greg Huth — Acting Director of
Economic Development — oath of
office. Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res.
Res.
son.
Res.
Res.

No. 888-02—Marge McCarthy.
No. 889-02—Lottie Mae GedNo. 890-02—Steven Medley.
No. 891-02—Judith Wauch.

CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 892-02—Don’s Lighthouse
Restaurant — (30th Anniversary).
Res. No. 893-02—Mrs. Patricia Carrington.
Res. No. 894-02—Mrs. Doreen Berts.
Res. No. 895-02—Mrs. Julia Wilson.
Res. No. 896-02—Bishop Clifford L.
Kimbrough, Jr.
WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 897-02—Herb J. Wesson,
Jr.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 898-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an agreement with American
Express to provide accounts payable
recovery service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
enter into an agreement with American Express to provide accounts
payable recovery services on the

basis of its proposal dated February
11, 2002.
The agreement shall
require American Express to conduct an independent analysis of the
City of Cleveland’s accounts payable
transactions to determine the nature
and extent of potential overpayments made to vendors between the
time period of January 1, 1999 and
December 31, 2001.
Section 2. That the agreement
shall provide that the City of Cleveland will pay American Express a
contingency fee of thirty-three percent (33%) of all overpayments
actually recovered. The agreement
shall also provide that the City of
Cleveland will not be liable for any
time or expenses other than the contingency fee.
Section 3. The agreement shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such additional terms
and conditions as are necessary to
protect the public interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Finance.
Ord. No. 899-02.
By Councilmen Coats and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to modify and maintain a
trac-vac residuals collection system,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period
not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
modify and maintain a trac-vac
residuals collection system, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than two
years may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the

990

May 15, 2002
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 114472)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 900-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ surveyors or firms of surveyors, to provide professional services necessary to survey various
parcels or portions of parcels of
land.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
to employ by contract or contracts
surveyors or firms of surveyors for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to survey various parcels or portions of
parcels of land under the jurisdiction and control of the various divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
The selection of surveyors or
firms of surveyors for such services
shall be made by the Board of Control upon the nomination of the
Director of Port Control from a list
of qualified surveyors or firms of
surveyors available for such employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Port Control for the purpose of compiling such a list. The
compensation to be paid for such
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control.
The contract or contracts herein authorized shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
contract or contracts herein authorized shall be paid from Fund No.
60 SF 001, Request No. 118192.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.

May 15, 2002

The City Record

5

Ord. No. 901-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with Continental Airlines, Inc. for the creation of the Director’s Advisory Council at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Whereas, the City has undertaken the major public improvement of the expansion of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and
Whereas, Continental Airlines, Inc. (“Continental”) has participated in the management of similar expansion
projects at various other airports across the country; and
Whereas, Continental Airlines, Inc. has a unique and critical interest in the success of the expansion program;
and
Whereas, Continental has offered to make its experience and expertise in similar airport projects available to
the City through participation in the management of the expansion program projects at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and
Whereas, the City has determined that Continental’s participation in the management of the airport expansion
under the direction of the Director of Port Control will be beneficial to the success of such program; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port Control is hereby authorized to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with Continental Airlines, Inc. regarding the creation of the Director’s Advisory Council at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport in substantially the following form:
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC. AND THE CITY OF CLEVELAND
IN REGARDS TO CREATION OF
THE DIRECTOR’S ADVISORY COUNCIL
AT CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
This Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) outlines the agreement between the City of Cleveland (“City”)
and Continental Airlines, Inc. (“CAL”) regarding creation of a Director’s Advisory Council (“DAC”) at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport (“Airport”).
The Airport is owned and operated by the City through the Department of Port Control (“DPC”), a department
of the City. CAL operates a system hub at the Airport and maintains rights to operate at the Airport under various agreements. In order to promote the timely delivery of several critical expansion projects at the Airport,
City and CAL desire to jointly establish a DAC that will participate in managing on behalf of the City the current Airport Expansion Program, the construction of which commenced in 2001.
A. PURPOSE
The DAC is to be created for the sole purpose of participating in the management of all aspects of the Airport Expansion Program projects, including the New Runway (Phase 1 and Phase 2) and the Critical Non-Runway projects that are described in the 2000 CIP and MII project definitions and listed on Exhibit A hereto (“Program”). The DAC will not have contracting authority, but will advise the City on appropriate courses of action
in regard to contracting as well as managing the Program. The City, through DPC, will retain final decisionmaking authority and will retain signature authority, including but not limited to authority to enter into or modify contracts related to the Program. The DAC will report to and take direction from the Deputy Director of Port
Control (“Deputy Director”). Nothing in this Agreement is intended to limit the Deputy Director from communicating directly with, and providing direction to, the DAC and the Program’s consultants and contractors.
The DAC will undertake to act as the liaison between all consultants, contractors, and vendors performing services related to the Program and the City as it relates to the day to day management of the Program from the
owner’s perspective. The City has previously retained a Program Management Team (“PMT”) to provide additional required staffing and expertise on this large construction program. The activities of the PMT will be coordinated by, and the PMT construction and project managers and all other PMT support staff will report to, the
DAC Project Director who has been given responsibility for the particular project or contract in issue. The PMT
Program Manager will report to the Deputy Director through the City’s Administrator of Engineering and Planning (“AEP”) with a copy of any such report being delivered concurrently to the appropriate DAC Project Director to the extent the subject matter involves a contract or project within the purview of such Project Director,
or issues related to the scope or value of the PMT contract.
It is the intent of the parties to this MOU that the organizational structure of the PMT will be reviewed and
realigned as necessary to maximize efficiencies in light of the DAC. The Deputy Director will advise all consultants, contractors, and vendors (including, without limitation, the PMT) that the Project Directors and other
Members of the DAC are acting as his/her designee in regard to the day-to-day management of their respective
services and/or contracts and that such consultants, contractors, and vendors performing services related to the
Program are to report to the DAC Project Director who has been given responsibility for a particular project or
contract for purposes of direction, project management decisions, progress reporting, and all other issues related
to completion of their respective contracts/services. (Nothing in the foregoing sentence is intended to modify the
scope of the PMT’s responsibilities or to change the reporting relationship between the PMT and other contractors or vendors.) Each member of the DAC will have specific areas of responsibility as defined in Exhibit B and
as modified from time to time by the Deputy Director.

991

6

The City Record

May 15, 2002

B. Scope
The DAC will be comprised of a maximum of six individuals, three of which will be selected by the City (and
may be either City employees or independent contractors), and three of which will be employees of CAL. Members of the DAC will, in general, be dedicated full-time to management of the Program. Inasmuch as the individuals will have no other responsibilities beyond the Program, the members provided by the City will not be
permanent positions at the Airport; provided that nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the City from hiring such persons for other positions at the Airport upon completion of their services on the DAC. Each DAC member’s position is intended to be in place for the duration of the Program if necessary, after which the DAC will
be dissolved. The contemplated organizational structure of the DAC is as set forth in Exhibit B attached hereto.
The DAC term may be modified in the future as deemed beneficial by the City and CAL. The DAC will cause
periodic reports to be made and presented to the Deputy Director by the PMT, including, (1) the Monthly Report
and the Quarterly Report, which are intended to be summary level reports on the overall status of the project
identifying significant accomplishments and potential problems occurring on the Program, (2) a Master Program
Schedule, which will include a statement of any schedule slippage or gain since the last reports, (3) a cost report
by project budget identifying original budget, current approved budget, committed costs, anticipated cost to complete, total anticipated cost, and variance, (4) a M/FBE & OEO Report identifying current dollar amount and percentage by contract that has been performed by certified M/FBE firms, and (5) an Issues and Concerns Report,
which will identify all issues and concerns requiring attention of City senior management to avoid cost delays
or cost overruns.
Each member of the DAC will have responsibility for managing a particular scope of the Program in accordance with the provisions of Section A above. Scope may be identified as (individual or multiple) projects, contractors, areas of expertise, etc. Each member of the DAC will consult with the Deputy Director to determine the
best course of action related to his or her area of responsibility as well as the overall Program.
The City and CAL agree to cooperate with each other in the formation, staffing, and continuing operation of
the DAC. The City or CAL may request replacement of any DAC member if it can reasonably demonstrate the
individual is not able to perform his/her responsibilities in a professional, competent manner and the City and
CAL agree to give due consideration to any such request. Further, the City maintains the right to dissolve the
DAC if, in its sole judgment, the DAC is not providing a meaningful benefit to the Program. CAL maintains the
right to terminate its involvement, and remove its employees from the DAC if, in its sole judgment, the City is
not acting in compliance with the intent of the management authority defined in this document. Both parties
agree to meet and make good faith efforts to resolve problems for at least thirty days prior to taking any action
that would affect the operating structure of the DAC. In the event either party terminates or modifies its involvement in the DAC, all authorized costs incurred by either party, through the date of termination, will be fully
reimbursed in accordance with the procedure set forth below.
It is understood that the scope of responsibility of the DAC is limited to the Program as defined in Exhibit A
and that the DAC will be dissolved when all of the projects comprising the Program are substantially completed, (which is expected to occur by approximately December 31, 2004) unless the Deputy Director determines that
it is necessary to retain the services of one or more members of the DAC for a longer period to assist in the
close out of the contracts. It is further understood that the Program includes only projects which relate to the
airfield generally and not to the exclusive use areas or leased premises of CAL or any other airline operating
at the Airport and that the DAC is expressly prohibited from advising the Deputy Director with respect to any
such exclusive use areas or leased premises.
C. DAC Related Costs
All costs of the DAC, including salaries, benefits and normal and usual expenses of the DAC employees will
be included in the Program cost, and paid from Program funds. The reimbursable salary and benefits of the CAL
employees will be the salary and benefits normally paid to such employees by CAL, provided that, without the
Deputy Director’s written consent, the reimbursement to CAL for salary shall not exceed $150,000 and the reimbursement to CAL for benefits shall not exceed .5 times the lesser of actual salary or $150,000. The salary and
benefits of the DAC members designated by the City will be determined by the City. CAL will pay its employees directly and submit costs for reimbursement from Program funds. The cost of any furniture, equipment or
supplies purchased by CAL (with the approval of the Deputy Director) for use by members of the DAC shall be
promptly reimbursed by the City out of Program funds and, upon such reimbursement, shall become the property of the City. The City will either pay its employees directly and submit costs for reimbursement from Program
funds or will cause its designees who are independent contractors to be paid directly from Program funds. The
City and CAL may submit expenses monthly, along with documentation sufficient to evidence such expenses, for
reimbursement. Each reimbursement request shall be submitted to the Deputy Director not more often than once
per month, and the City shall use best efforts to cause reimbursement to be made within 30 days of submittal.
D. General
It is acknowledged by the City and CAL that the intent of the creation of the DAC is to be benefit the Program generally by making available to the City CAL’s construction experience in order to enhance the City’s performance of the owner’s rights and responsibilities with respect to the Program and specifically by implementing procedures designed to (1) assess and resolve problems affecting the Program and its implementation productively, (2) cause timely and accurate reporting concerning the Program, and (3) facilitate the completion of
the Program on time and within budget. However, in this regard, it is noted that although the DAC shall participate in managing the day-to-day operations of the Program as herein specified, neither the DAC nor the individuals designated by the City or CAL shall have the ability to amend the express terms of any contract relating to the Program (and all such amendatory power is retained by the City as the owner of the Program).
Notwithstanding anything herein or in the various agreements to which CAL and the City are a party, the City
and CAL agree that neither any individual appointed by them to serve on the DAC nor the City or CAL shall be
liable to the other party directly or with respect to claims asserted by third parties for actions or inactions of
the DAC or any individual member thereof acting in good faith and within the scope of such member’s duties;
provided, that nothing herein shall limit the liability, if any, that the City or CAL each may have to the other

992

The City Record

May 15, 2002

7

under the various agreements between them or under law in respect of the Program if such liability would have
arisen absent the involvement of the DAC. The City agrees to use reasonable efforts to cause CAL to be listed
as an additional insured under the City’s Program contracts. CAL agrees to provide for its employees who serve
on the DAC the normal insurance coverage which it provides for all of its employees, including, without limitation, automobile and general liability insurance and workers compensation insurance, and that, to the extent that
third party claims are asserted against the City arising out of acts of the CAL employees which are covered by
such automobile or general liability insurance, the City may assert a claim against CAL to be collected out of
said insurance notwithstanding the mutual waivers of liability set forth in this paragraph. CAL further agrees
that its employees who are members of the DAC shall act in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Nothing herein shall be construed to create a waiver of any immunities that the City may otherwise have
under state, federal, or common law.
The City and CAL agree that there are no third party beneficiaries of this agreement and that nothing herein provided, nor any actions taken by the DAC in connection with this agreement or the Program, shall limit the
duties that any third party, including without limitation the PMT, may have in connection with the Program.
Nothing herein shall be construed to create a joint venture or an employer-employee relationship between a party
and the DAC members furnished by the other party.
[The balance of this page intentionally left blank]
The parties hereby evidence their agreement with, and intent to be bound by, the terms of this MOU by signature below. This MOU shall be binding upon the parties upon approval by Cleveland City Council and the Board
of Directors of CAL (unless such requirement is waived in writing by the President of CAL).
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND
By:

CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC.

____________________________________________

By:______________________________________________________

Name: __________________________________________

Name:

Title:

__________________________________________

Title:____________________________________________________

__________________________________________________

Date:

__________________________________________

Date:____________________________________________________

The legal form and correctness of the within
agreement are hereby approved:
Richard F. Horvath, Acting Director of Law
By: ______________________
Assistant Director of Law

EXHIBIT A
PROJECTS
Runway 6L/24R
Abram Creek
Brook Park Road Relocation
NASA Facilities Relocation
NASA Landfill Closures
North Terminal Expansion/Upper Roadway Reconstruction
Tracon Rehabilitation
Riveredge Parking Lot
CEI Transmission Line Relocation
Concourse C Rehabilitation
Redundant Electrical Source
Design and Construct Consolidated Maintenance Facility
Design and Construct West Hangar Road

EXHIBIT B
DAC ORGANIZATION:
It is envisioned that the DAC will be comprised of 1 Contract Administrator, 1 Program Financial Manager,
and up to 4 Project Directors. Initial staffing will include 2 Project Directors (appointed by CAL) and the Contract Administrator (appointed by the City). Additional appointments shall be made by mutual agreement. An
organizational chart is attached to this Exhibit as Schedule 1.
Project Director:
Each Project Director (“PD”) will be assigned a specific number of discrete projects. Under direction of the
DPC Administrator of Engineering and Planning (“AEP”) or the DPC Chief Engineer (“CE”) as determined by
the Deputy Director, this person will provide direction to the PMT staff on the management of those projects.
The PD will have construction management experience with a college degree in engineering, construction management, or similar training.
Contract Administrator:

993

The City Record

8

May 15, 2002

It is important that the overall contract administration be consistent and that all contracts be monitored from
an administrative standpoint for compliance with contract terms and conditions. The contract administrator (“CA”),
under the direction of the AEP, will support the ongoing review of all issues regarding general conditions, terms
of the contract and interpretation of the intent of the contract language. The CA will serve as administrative
liaison with City staff responsible for legislation, finances, procurement, Office of Equal Opportunity compliance,
and project communications. The CA will also be responsible for processing change orders and subsidiary agreements. The CA will have a background in construction contract administration and a college degree in a related field.
Financial Manager:
The financial manager (“FM”) shall be under the direction of the AEP, and will be responsible for cost control on each project within the Program. All projects will be set up with a separate approved project budget. The
FM will track all project costs including anticipated cost so that accurate financial reporting is performed. The
FM will work with all team members to collect cost data and manage the preparation of all required financial
reports. The FM will have cost management experience and the capability to track and manage multiple project
accounts. The FM should have a college degree in finance and proven work performance.
Office:
The DAC will have offices located at the airport in the engineering office complex currently in place. One or
two administrative assistants provided by the Program will support the DAC.
FIELD DIRECTIVES AND CHANGE ORDERS;
Field Directives:
It is the Program policy that the Deputy Director must first approve all work that changes the approved scope
prior to committing any additional costs. However, on a project of the magnitude of the Program, certain conditions will arise during construction that require immediate decision in order to avoid or mitigate significant additional costs as well as schedule slippage. Upon approval of the CE, the PD is authorized to issue field directives
if in his or her opinion immediate direction is required. The field directive will instruct the contractor that they
are authorized to commit up to $10,000 against the field directive prior to the execution of a change order. Separate filed directives may be issued to address different construction conditions; provided, that, at such time as
a change order to the contract is required, no further field directives in respect of such contract may be issued
until such a change order is executed.

Schedule 1
ORGANIZATION CHART
Deputy Director

|
|
AEP/CE

|
|
| -------------------------------------------------------------------PMT
DAC Members

|
City Project Engineers -------- |--------PMT Contruction and
and Supervisors

|
Other Eng’g Staff

Program Manager

|
|
|

|

|
Project Managers
|
|--------PMT Staff
|

PMT Construction and
Project Managers

|
PMT Staff

Consultants, Contractors & Vendors

Section 2. That in order to monitor compliance of expansion program contractors with the City’s MBE/FBE, residency, and workforce hiring goals, a full-time employee of the Department of Port Control will be assigned to
serve in the position of compliance monitor for the airport expansion program.
Section 3. That the cost of the expenditures authorized by Section 1 of this ordinance shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, passenger facilities charges and the fund and/or subfunds to which are credited the
proceeds of any general airport revenue bonds, federal grants, state grants, and local grants issued for the purpose of the public improvement of the expansion of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.

994

May 15, 2002
Ord. No. 902-02.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of West 7th Place hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the day of February
11, 2001, the Council of the City of
Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
2374-01 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of West 7th Place,
hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 2374-01 has
been served upon the owners of all
the property abutting West 7th
Place affected by said Resolution,
notifying the said property owners
of the time and place at which
objections can be heard before the
Board of Revision of Assessments,
and
Whereas, on the 7th day of May,
2002, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of
West
7th
Place,
hereinafter
described, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating West 7th Place, hereinafter
described and that it will not be
detrimental to the general interest
and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
the following described real property: situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of
West 7th Place a.) The easterly 2.00
feet of West 7th Place (12 feet
wide), extending from the southwesterly line of University Road,
S.W. as proposed to be widened,
southerly to the southeasterly extension of the northeasterly line of University Row, S.W. (16.00 feet wide),
as proposed to be dedicated by the
subdivision, Dedication and Widening Plat for Sutton Builders, Inc.
(proposed) b.) The westerly 2.00
feet of West 7th Place (12 feet
wide), extending from the southwesterly line of University Road,
S.W. as proposed to be widened,
southerly to the northeasterly line
of University Row, S.W. (16.00 feet
wide), as proposed to be dedicated,
by the Subdivision, Dedication and
Widening Plat for Sutton Builders,
Inc. (proposed), be and the same is
hereby vacated.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of West 7th Place, herein
provided by sending him a copy of
this Ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Law; Committees on Public Service,
City Planning.

The City Record
Ord. No. 903-02.
By Councilmen Coats, Sweeney,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency Ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell Cityowned property no longer needed for
public use located at 732 East 133rd
Street to Sunrise Development Company.
Whereas, the Director of Public
Service has requested the sale of
City-owned property no longer needed for public use and located at 732
East 133rd Street; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined
that
the
following
described property is no longer
needed for public use:
732 East 133rd Street
Permanent Parcel No. 112-02-038
The beginning point is in the
Westerly line of proposed East 133rd
Street (50 feet wide) distant North
00° 08' 40" East along said line
292.60 feet from the South line of
said Original Lot Number 351, which
is also the South line of land conveyed by Sheldon Parks and wife to
Joseph Parks by deed dated January 12, 1858, and recorded in Volume
93, Page 333 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said Westerly line of East
133rd Street is parallel with and distant North 89° 57' 30" West, along
the
Southerly
line
of
proposed
Eaglesmere Avenue N.E. (50 feet
wide), 715 feet from the center line
of East 136th Street as shown by
plat of the Henry C. Wick Subdivision recorded in Volume 28, Page 16
of Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Course 1. Thence North 00° 08' 40"
East along the Westerly line of said
proposed East 133rd Street, 50 feet.
Course 2. Thence North 89° 57' 30"
West 113.84 feet to the Westerly line
of said Original Lot Number 351,
being also the Easterly line of
Gilbert-Coe-Shiperd
Allotment
recorded in Volume 5, Page 23 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Course 3. Thence South 00° 02' 20"
West along said line, 50 feet.
Course 4. Thence South 89° 57' 30"
East, 113.75 feet to the place of
beginning.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described property to Sunrise
Development Company at a price
not less than fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland.
The deed
shall contain provisions including
such
restrictive
covenants
and
reversionary interests as may be
specified by the Board of Control or
Director of Law protecting the parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection
of any advertising signs or bill-

995

9
boards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 904-02.
By Councilman Jones.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Velma Avenue S.E. hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the day of August 15,
2001, the Council of the City of
Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
1609-01 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of Velma Avenue
S.E., hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 1609-01 has
been served upon the owners of all
the property abutting Velma Avenue
S.E. affected by said Resolution,
notifying the said property owners
of the time and place at which
objections can be heard before the
Board of Revision of Assessments,
and
Whereas, on the 7th day of May,
2002, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of Velma Avenue S.E., hereinafter
described, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating Velma Avenue S.E., hereinafter
described and that it will not be
detrimental to the general interest
and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
the following described real property: situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and
State of Ohio, and being all that
portion of Velma Avenue S.E. (25.00
feet
wide)
extending
Westerly
from the Westerly line of East 142
Street
(50
feet
wide)
to
the
Northerly prolongation of the Easterly line of Sublot Number 4 in the
Continental Park Subdivision as
shown in the recorded plat in Volume 55 Page 40 of Cuyahoga County map records, be and the same is
hereby vacated.
Section 2. That there be and hereby is reserved to the City of Cleveland
an
easement
for
existing
Dominion East Ohio Gas equipment.
The description of the easement is
as follows:
That portion of Velma Avenue
S.E. (25.00 feet wide) extending
Westerly from the Westerly line of
East 142 Street (50.00 feet wide) to
the Northerly prolongation of the
Easterly line of Sublot Number 4 in
the Continental Park Subdivision as
shown in the recorded plat in Volume 55 Page 40 of Cuyahoga County map records.

10
That no structures shall be hereinafter erected on the premises
described in this easement except
those
constructed
in
accordance
with the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by
Dominion East Ohio Gas, of the City
of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of Velma Avenue S.E., herein provided by sending him a copy
of this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Law; Committees on Public Service,
City Planning.
Ord. No. 905-02.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Industrial Parkway S.W.
hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the day of June 19,
2001, the Council of the City of
Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
941-01 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of Industrial Parkway S.W., hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 941-01 has
been served upon the owners of all
the property abutting Industrial
Parkway S.W. affected by said Resolution, notifying the said property
owners of the time and place at
which
objections
can
be
heard
before the Board of Revision of
Assessments, and
Whereas, on the 7th day of May,
2002, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of Industrial Parkway S.W., hereinafter described, in accordance with
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating Industrial Parkway S.W., hereinafter described and that it will not
be detrimental to the general interest and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
the following described real property: situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of
Industrial Parkway S.W. (60.00 feet
wide), extending Westerly from the
Northerly prolongation of the Easterly line of Sublot Number 21 in the
Fogg-West 140th Street Industrial
Park as shown on the Recorded Plat
in Volume 222, Page 45 of Cuyahoga
County Records to its Westerly terminus, be and the same is hereby
vacated.
Section 2. That there be and hereby is reserved to the City of Cleveland an easement for existing Division of Water Pollution Control

The City Record
equipment, Division of Water equipment, Division of Fire equipment,
and Dominion East Ohio Gas equipment.
The description of the easement is
as follows:
That portion of Industrial Parkway S.W. (60.00 feet wide), extending Westerly from the Northerly prolongation of the Easterly line of
Sublot Number 21 in the Fogg-West
140th Street Industrial Park as
shown on the Recorded Plat in Volume 222, Page 45 of Cuyahoga County Records to its Westerly terminus.
That no structures shall be hereinafter
erected
on
the
premises
described in this easement except
those
constructed
in
accordance
with the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by the
Commissioner of the Division of
Water Pollution Control, the Division of Water, the Division of Fire,
and Dominion East Ohio Gas, of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of Industrial Parkway S.W.,
herein provided by sending him a
copy of this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Law; Committees on Public Service,
City Planning.
Ord. No. 906-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, Sections 1, 7, 11, and 12 of
Ordinance No. 2368-92, passed December 14, 1992, as amended, relating to
the
rehabilitation
of
Memphis
Avenue from Ridge Road to Pearl
Road; and to supplement said ordinance by adding new Sections 9a,
9b, 9c, 9d and 9e thereof.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title, Sections
1, 7, 11, and 12 of Ordinance No. 236892, passed December 14, 1992, as
amended by Ordinance Nos. 1454-97,
passed November 24, 1997 and 14022000, passed November 13, 2000, are
hereby amended to read, respectively, as follows:
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland for
the
rehabilitation
of
Memphis
Avenue from Ridge Road to Pearl
Road to the County of Cuyahoga;
authorizing the Director of Public
Service to enter into any agreements
relative thereto; to apply for and
accept an allocation of County Motor
Vehicle License Tax Funds for the
improvement; and to authorize the
Director of Public Service to cause
payment of the City of Cleveland’s
share to the County of Cuyahoga for
its portion of said improvement;

996

May 15, 2002
determining the method of making
the
above
public
improvement;
authorizing the Director of Public
Service to enter into contract for the
making of such improvement; authorizing said Director to employ professional
design
consultants
to
implement such improvement; and
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire
for right-of-way purposes such real
property as is necessary to make the
public improvement.
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is hereby given to construct the following
improvement in accordance with
plans, specifications and estimates
approved by ODOT: The rehabilitation of Memphis Avenue from Ridge
Road to Pearl Road (the “Improvement”).
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to enter into an agreement with the
Board of Commissioners of the
County concerning the financing of
the Improvement, which agreement
shall
contain
without
limitation
terms substantially similar to the
following:
a) That the City will prepare or
cause to be prepared construction
plans and specifications for the
Improvement, including necessary
engineering reports, under current
County Engineer standards for construction
of
County
roads
and
bridges and the City will agree to
provide the County with a complete
set of as-built plans upon completion
of the Improvement.
(b) That if, by ordinance of this
Council, the City requests the County, to include in the Improvement
the construction of sanitary sewers,
water lines, sewers for drainage of
the area surrounding the Improvement, sidewalks, alternate bid items
or other times that are in addition
to those now existing in the plans
for the Improvement and not provided for elsewhere in the agreement, the County will do so, provided that the construction of such
additional items is approved by the
County and the City, and provided
further that the City agrees to pay
or cause to be paid the cost of said
construction and of preliminary and
design engineering therefor, but the
City shall not be responsible for the
cost of supervision of said construction.
(c) That the City hereby agrees
to participate with the County in the
cost of the Improvement by an allocation from the County Motor Vehicle License Tax fund to pay the
County portion of the project.
(d) That if the project is financed
as a Federal-aid project, eligible
costs of the Improvement shall be
financed from the aforesaid funds.
Section 11. That this Council hereby authorizes payment to the County of Cuyahoga for the City’s share
of the cost of the Improvement
and/or acceptance from the County
by the City of its share of the
Improvement.
Section 12. That the costs of the
Improvement, services and property
acquisition
herein
contemplated
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF
190, 20 SF 181, 20 SF 146, 20 SF 170,
20 SF 302, 20 SF 312, 20 SF 322, 20
SF 344 and 20 SF 353, Request Nos.
14325 and 22511.
Section 2. That the existing title,
Sections 1, 7, 11, and 12 of Ordinance

May 15, 2002
No. 2368-92, passed December 14,
1992, as amended by Ordinance Nos.
1454-97, passed November 24, 1997
and 1402-2000, passed November 13,
2000, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 236892, passed December 14, 1992, as
amended by Ordinance Nos. 1454-97,
passed November 24, 1997 and 14022000, passed November 13, 2000, is
hereby supplemented by adding new
Sections 9a, 9b, 9c, 9d and 9e to read,
respectively, as follows:
Section 9a. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement
of
rehabilitating
Memphis
Avenue from Ridge Road to Pearl
Road, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of
Public Service, by contract duly let
to the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the Improvement.
9b. That the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized to enter
into contract for the making of the
above public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of said
Improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a unit basis.
9c. That the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized to
employ by contract one or more
design consultants or one or more
firms of design consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
Improvement.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Service for the purpose
of compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Public Service, and certified
by the Director of Finance.
9d. that notwithstanding any provision of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized
to acquire for right-of-way purposes
such real property as is necessary
to make the Improvement. The consideration to be paid for such property shall not exceed its appraised
value.
9e. That the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized to execute on behalf of the City all documents necessary to acquire such
property and to employ and pay all
fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, and all other
costs necessary for the acquisition
of such property.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

The City Record
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 907-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into contract without competitive bidding with The McLean Company for the purchase of one cab
and chassis unit with oil distributor
body, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, the local resurfacing
program requires a minimum of two
working distributors in order to service three resurfacing crews; and
Whereas,
prior
to
installing
asphalt on a street, tack coat must
be distributed in order to help the
new asphalt adhere to the base of
the street; and
Whereas, in September of 2001,
one oil distributor was damaged;
and
Whereas,
estimates
for
repair
were
not
economically
advantageous; and
Whereas, the second oil distributor we own is 30 years old and in
need of constant repair; and
Whereas, of the two companies
that make oil distributors, only The
McLean Company can deliver one
within the next 30-60 days; and
Whereas, in order to have a successful local resurfacing program in
2002, this purchase must be made
immediately; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Service
has
recommended,
that,
based upon cost, quality, and delivery date, the City should contract
with The McLean Company for this
purchase; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written contract with
The McLean Company, for the purchase of one cab and chassis unit
with oil distributor body, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department
of
Public Service, at an estimated cost
of $88,000.00
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 11 SF 006,
Request No. 121311.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.

997

11
Ord. No. 908-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of automotive and truck
oils, lubricants and solvents, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the term of one
year or two years subject to the
requirements of this ordinance for
the necessary items of automotive
and truck oils, lubricants and solvents in the approximate amount as
purchased
during the
preceding
year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
a year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term. The Director of
Public Service shall have authority
to enter into a contract or contracts
with a term of two (2) years when
there is a financial advantage to
the City of entering into a contract
or contracts with a term of two (2)
years in lieu of entering into a contract or contracts with a term of
one (1) year. For purposes of this
ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Public Service by comparing the
bids received for a contract or contracts with a term of two (2) years
and the bids received for a contract
or contracts with a term of one (1)
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105780)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.

12
Ord. No. 909-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of towing services, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the term of one
year or two years subject to the
requirements of this ordinance for
the necessary items of towing services in the approximate amount as
purchased
during the
preceding
year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
a year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term. The Director of
Public Service shall have authority
to enter into a contract or contracts
with a term of two (2) years when
there is a financial advantage to
the City of entering into a contract
or contracts with a term of two (2)
years in lieu of entering into a contract or contracts with a term of
one (1) year. For purposes of this
ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Public Service by comparing the
bids received for a contract or contracts with a term of two (2) years
and the bids received for a contract
or contracts with a term of one (1)
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105783)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 910-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of Meyer snow plow and
spreader parts, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the term of one
year or two years subject to the
requirements of this ordinance for
the necessary items of Meyer snow
plow and spreader parts, including
labor if necessary in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding year, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Service shall
have authority to enter into a contract or contracts with a term of two
(2) years when there is a financial
advantage to the City of entering
into a contract or contracts with a
term of two (2) years in lieu of
entering into a contract or contracts
with a term of one (1) year.
For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for a
contract or contracts with a term of
two (2) years and the bids received
for a contract or contracts with a
term of one (1) year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105797)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.

998

May 15, 2002
Ord. No. 911-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract
of
International
truck
parts, including labor if necessary,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the term of one
year or two years subject to the
requirements of this ordinance for
the necessary items of International truck parts, including labor if
necessary
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the
preceding year, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine.
Alternate bids for a
period less than a year may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of
Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
term.
The Director of Public Service shall have authority to enter
into a contract or contracts with a
term of two (2) years when there is
a financial advantage to the City of
entering into a contract or contracts
with a term of two (2) years in lieu
of entering into a contract or contracts with a term of one (1) year.
For purposes of this ordinance, a
financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Public Service by comparing the bids received
for a contract or contracts with a
term of two (2) years and the bids
received for a contract or contracts
with a term of one (1) year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105774)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.

May 15, 2002
Ord. No. 912-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of Cushman-Ransome equipment parts, including labor if necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the term of one
year or two years subject to the
requirements of this ordinance for
the necessary items of CushmanRansome equipment parts, including
labor if necessary in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding year, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Service shall
have authority to enter into a contract or contracts with a term of two
(2) years when there is a financial
advantage to the City of entering
into a contract or contracts with a
term of two (2) years in lieu of
entering into a contract or contracts
with a term of one (1) year. For purposes of this ordinance, a financial
advantage shall be determined by
the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for a
contract or contracts with a term of
two (2) years and the bids received
for a contract or contracts with a
term of one (1) year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105775)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 913-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of tire repair road service,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the term of one
year or two years subject to the
requirements of this ordinance for
the necessary items of tire repair
road service in the approximate
amount as purchased during the
preceding year, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken
if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Service shall
have authority to enter into a contract or contracts with a term of
two (2) years when there is a financial advantage to the City of entering into a contract or contracts with
a term of two (2) years in lieu of
entering into a contract or contracts
with a term of one (1) year. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for a
contract or contracts with a term of
two (2) years and the bids received
for a contract or contracts with a
term of one (1) year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105781)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.

999

13
Ord. No. 914-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, Section 7 of Ordinance No.
294-98, passed April 6, 1998, relating
to the repair and resurfacing of
Ridge Road from Brookpark Road
to Denison Avenue to the County of
Cuyahoga; and to supplement said
ordinance by adding new Section 9a
thereto.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 7 of Ordinance No. 294-98,
passed April 6, 1998 is hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland for
the repair and resurfacing of Ridge
Road from Brookpark Road to Denison Avenue to the County of Cuyahoga; authorizing the Director of
Public Service to enter into any
agreements
relative
thereto;
to
apply for and accept an allocation
of County Motor Vehicle License
Tax Funds for the improvement;
authorizing the Director of Public
Service to cause payment of the
City’s share to the County of Cuyahoga for the cost of the improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to enter into an agreement with the
Board of Commissioners of the
County concerning the financing of
the Improvement, which agreement
shall
contain
without
limitation
terms substantially similar to the
following:
a) That the County will arrange
for the preparation of construction
plans and specifications for the
Improvement, including necessary
engineering reports, under current
County Engineer Standards for construction
of
County
roads
and
bridges.
b) That the County will arrange
for the supervision and administration of the construction contract for
the Improvement, and will review
the construction plans for conformance with division a) of this section and make an inspection of the
completed project.
c) That if, by ordinance of this
Council, the City requests the County, to include in the Improvement
the construction of sanitary sewers,
water lines, sewers for drainage of
the area surrounding the Improvement, sidewalks, alternate bid items
or other items that are in addition
to those now existing in the plans
for the Improvement and not provided for elsewhere in the agreement, the County will do so, provided that the construction of such
additional items is approved by the
County and the City, and provided
further that the City agrees to pay
or cause to be paid the cost of said
construction and of preliminary and
design engineering therefor, but the
City shall not be responsible for the
cost of supervision of said additional construction.
d) That the City hereby agrees to
participate with the County in the
cost of the Improvement by an allo-

14
cation from the County Motor Vehicle License Tax fund to pay the
County portion of the project.
e) That if the project is financed
as a Federal-aid project, eligible
costs of the Improvement shall be
financed from the aforesaid funds.
f) That within the corporate limits of the City, the City hereby
agrees to contribute twenty percent
(20%) of the cost of construction,
construction
supervision,
right-ofway, and incidentals and forty percent (40%) of the cost of preparation of plans and specifications.
That the City hereby agrees to
deposit with the Treasurer of Cuyahoga County the City’s share of the
estimated cost of the project or the
Director of Public Service is hereby
authorized to enter into escrow
agreement with the Board of County Commissioners prior to an award
of a contract for the improvement.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 7 of Ordinance No. 29498, passed April 6, 1998, is hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 29498, passed April 6, 1998, is hereby
supplemented by adding new Section 9a to read as follows:
Section 9a. That this Council hereby authorizes payment to the County of Cuyahoga of the City’s share
of the cost of the improvement, from
Fund No. 20 SF 312, Request No.
117835.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 915-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of Ford tractor mowers and
construction equipment parts, including labor if necessary, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the term of one
year or two years subject to the
requirements of this ordinance for
the necessary items of Ford tractor
mowers and construction equipment
parts, including labor if necessary
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding year, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service. Bids shall be taken
in such manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combina-

The City Record
tion of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term. The Director of Public Service
shall have authority to enter into a
contract or contracts with a term of
two (2) years when there is a financial advantage to the City of entering into a contract or contracts with
a term of two (2) years in lieu of
entering into a contract or contracts
with a term of one (1) year. For purposes of this ordinance, a financial
advantage shall be determined by
the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for a
contract or contracts with a term of
two (2) years and the bids received
for a contract or contracts with a
term of one (1) year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105776)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 916-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of equipment and vehicle
batteries, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the term of one
year or two years subject to the
requirements of this ordinance for
the necessary items of equipment
and vehicle batteries in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding year, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commis-

1000

May 15, 2002
sioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Service shall
have authority to enter into a contract or contracts with a term of two
(2) years when there is a financial
advantage to the City of entering
into a contract or contracts with a
term of two (2) years in lieu of
entering into a contract or contracts
with a term of one (1) year. For purposes of this ordinance, a financial
advantage shall be determined by
the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for a
contract or contracts with a term of
two (2) years and the bids received
for a contract or contracts with a
term of one (1) year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105805)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 917-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of new tires, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the term of one
year or two years subject to the
requirements of this ordinance for
the necessary items of new tires in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding year, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service. Bids shall be taken
in such manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term. The Director of Public Service
shall have authority to enter into a
contract or contracts with a term of

May 15, 2002
two (2) years when there is a financial advantage to the City of entering into a contract or contracts with
a term of two (2) years in lieu of
entering into a contract or contracts
with a term of one (1) year. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for a
contract or contracts with a term of
two (2) years and the bids received
for a contract or contracts with a
term of one (1) year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105779)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 918-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain mowers and cutting equipment, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the term of one
year or two years subject to the
requirements of this ordinance for
the necessary items of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain mowers and cutting equipment in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term. The Director of Public Service
shall have authority to enter into a
contract or contracts with a term of
two (2) years when there is a financial advantage to the City of enter-

The City Record
ing into a contract or contracts with
a term of two (2) years in lieu of
entering into a contract or contracts
with a term of one (1) year. For purposes of this ordinance, a financial
advantage shall be determined by
the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for a
contract or contracts with a term of
two (2) years and the bids received
for a contract or contracts with a
term of one (1) year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105778)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 919-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain generators, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and
the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the term of one year or
two years subject to the requirements of this ordinance for the necessary items of labor and materials
necessary to repair and maintain
generators
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the
preceding year, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
a year may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term. The Director of Public
Service shall have authority to enter
into a contract or contracts with a
term of two (2) years when there is
a financial advantage to the City of
entering into a contract or contracts
with a term of two (2) years in lieu
of entering into a contract or con-

1001

15
tracts with a term of one (1) year.
For purposes of this ordinance, a
financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Public Service by comparing the bids received
for a contract or contracts with a
term of two (2) years and the bids
received for a contract or contracts
with a term of one (1) year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 105777)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 920-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
employ surveyors or firms of surveyors, to provide professional surveying services on various capital
projects for a period not to exceed
one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to employ by contract or contracts
surveyors or firms of surveyors for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional surveying services on various capital projects for a period not
to exceed one year.
The selection of surveyors or
firms of surveyors for such services
shall be made by the Board of Control upon the nomination of the
Director of Public Service from a
list of qualified surveyors or firms
of surveyors available for such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Service for
the purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or
contracts herein authorized shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Service, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
contract or contracts herein authorized shall be paid from Fund Nos.
20 SF 181, 20 SF 190, 20 SF 302, 20
SF 312, 20 SF 322, 20 SF 334, 20 SF
342, 20 SF 353, 20 SF 363, 20 SF 364
and 20 SF 380, Request No. 117836.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

16
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 921-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of traffic signals, poles, controllers, sign blanks, reflective sheeting and other related materials, for
the Division of Traffic Engineering,
Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and
the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one year for
the necessary items of traffic signals, poles, controllers, sign blanks,
reflective sheeting and other related
materials in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division of
Traffic Engineering, Department of
Public Service. Bids shall be taken
in such manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as a
single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of
said items as the Board of Control
shall determine. Alternate bids for a
period less than a year may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 108986)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 922-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
cause payment of the City’s share to
Cleveland Metroparks for the Scenic
Byways trail and overlook construction project.

The City Record
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 868-2000, passed June 12, 2000, as
amended by Ordinance No. 670-01,
passed April 9, 2001, this Council
gave consent to the Director of the
City Planning Commission to apply
for and accept a grant from the Federal Highway Administration for
the Scenic ByWays Program; and
Whereas, pursuant to the above
referenced ordinances, this Council
authorized the City to participate in
the program by contributing matching funds towards the cost of an
authorized grant improvement; and
Whereas, the above referenced
ordinances also authorized an agreement with the Cleveland Metroparks
to use the grant funds accepted pursuant to the above referenced ordinances for the purposes of the grant
improvement; and
Whereas, the City’s share of the
cost of said improvement is currently estimated to be $50,500.00; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby authorizes payment to the Cleveland Metroparks for the City’s share
in the Scenic Byways Trail and
Overlook construction project which
includes resurfacing Webb Terrace,
reconfiguring the Broadway/Warner/Turney intersection and associated curb ramps and traffic markings,
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 181, 20 SF 190,
20 SF 302, 20 SF 312, 20 SF 322, 20
SF 334, 20 SF 342, 20 SF 353, 20 SF
364, 20 SF 373, and from the fund or
funds which are credited the proceeds of the sale of 2002 general
obligation bonds sold for this purpose, Request No. 117834.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 923-02.
By Councilmen Britt and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into a license agreement with
the County of Cuyahoga for the use
of garage space necessary to store
vehicles for the Division of House
of Corrections, Department of Public Health, for a period not to exceed
one year.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
requires certain space located at
19700 Miles Road, in Warrensville
Heights, Ohio for the public purpose
of the use of garage space necessary to store vehicles for the Division of House of Corrections; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into a license agreement with the
County of Cuyahoga granting use of

1002

May 15, 2002
approximately 8,000 square feet of
garage space located at 19700 Miles
Road, in Warrensville Heights, Ohio,
necessary to store vehicles used for
the operation of the Division of
House of Corrections.
Section 2. That the term of the
license agreement authorized by
this ordinance shall not exceed one
year, and shall be at no cost to the
City.
Section 3. That the license agreement shall include a provision that
the County of Cuyahoga shall be
indemnified
against
any
injury,
accident or loss while the City of
Cleveland is using their property.
Section 4. That the license agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain additional terms and conditions necessary to effect the license agreement
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health and the Director of
Law, and other appropriate city officials, are authorized to execute such
other documents and certificates,
and take such other action as may
be necessary or appropriate to effect
the license agreement authorized by
this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.
Ord. No. 924-02.
By Councilmen Zone and Reed.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 619.11 thereof, and
repealing existing Section 619.11, as
amended by Ordinance No. 773-87,
passed June 16, 1987, relating to prohibiting conduct related to prostitution, soliciting, or procuring.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That existing Section
619.11 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 773-87, passed June
16, 1987, is hereby repealed.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 619.11 thereof to read as
follows:
Section 619.11 Conduct Related to
Prostitution, Soliciting, and Procuring Prohibited
(a) Findings. This Council finds
that persons who engage in prostitution, procuring or solicitation commonly engage in the behaviors
described in division (b), and that
these behaviors usually indicate
criminal conduct. This Council further finds that prostitution, procurement and solicitation constitute nuisances that adversely affect the
quality of life in the neighborhoods
of the City and threatens the public
health, safety and welfare.
(b)
Offense.
No
person
shall
engage in the following behaviors

May 15, 2002
in or about any public place, or any
place open to the public, or any private place visible from a public
place, with the specific intent to
engage in prostitution, procuring, or
soliciting contrary to the provisions
of Sections 619.10, 619.09, or 619.08 of
the Codified Ordinances, or contrary
to any substantially similar provision of Revised Code Chapter 2907:
(1) To repeatedly stop, beckon to,
attempt to stop passersby except in
case of emergency; or
(2) To repeatedly stop, beckon to,
or attempt to stop motor vehicles,
other than motor vehicles for hire
and except in case of emergency, by
hailing, waving arms or making
other bodily gestures; or
(3) To act as a look-out; or
(4) To repeatedly interfere with
the free passage of other persons.
(c) Rebuttable Presumption. A
person shall be rebuttably presumed
to have the mens rea of specific
intent to engage in prostitution,
soliciting, or procuring contrary to
the provisions of Sections 619.10,
619.09, or 619.08 of the Codified Ordinances, or contrary to any substantially similar provision of Revised
Code Chapter 2907, if the person persists in one or more of the behaviors described in division (b) of this
section after a law enforcement officer gives the person reasonable
warning to desist, and:
(1) The person is a “known
offender of an offense of prostitution, soliciting, or procuring” as
defined in division (d) of this section; or
(2) The person is identified by a
law enforcement officer as a member of a gang or association which
has as its principal purpose illegal
prostitution, soliciting or procuring
activity.
This rebuttable presumption shall
not apply if the person is engaged
in otherwise lawful activity at the
time, and when questioned by a
police officer, provides a credible
explanation of his or her conduct
that is consistent with lawful activity.
(d) Definitions. As used in this
section:
(1) “Known offender of an offense
of prostitution, soliciting, or procuring” means a person who, within
five (5) years prior to the arrest for
a violation of this section, and within the knowledge of the arresting
officer, has been convicted of a violation of this section, or of prostitution, soliciting, or procuring contrary to the provisions of Sections
619.10, 619.09, or 619.08 of the Codified Ordinances, or contrary to any
substantially similar law of any
other municipal corporation of the
state of Ohio, or contrary to any substantially
similar
provision
of
Revised Code Chapter 2907.
(2) “Public place” has the same
meaning as in Section 101.02, division (o), of the Codified Ordinances.
(e) Penalty. Whoever violates the
provisions of this section is guilty
of engaging in prohibited prostitution-related activity, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Notwithstanding
any other section of this Code, a
fine of at least five hundred dollars
($500.00) is mandatory upon conviction of an offense under this section.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

The City Record
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Safety,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 925-02.
By Councilman Zone.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 607.19 thereof, and
repealing existing Section 607.19, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1163-95,
passed June 19, 1995, relating to prohibiting drug-related activities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That existing Section
607.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 1163-95, passed June
19, 1995, is hereby repealed.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 607.19 thereof to read as
follows:
Section 607.19 Drug-Related Activities Prohibited
(a) Findings. This Council finds
that persons selling illegal drugs
engage in behavior that is readily
recognizable by citizens and law
enforcement officers as illegal drug
activity, but that the offenders
commonly attempt to frustrate law
enforcement
efforts
by
various
means including carrying the illegal
drugs in their mouths, and swallowing or attempting to swallow the
drugs if approached by a law
enforcement officer, or using animals such as dogs as couriers for
illegal drugs, which are often kept
in the animal’s collar, or transporting the drugs hidden within a bicycle.
This Council further finds that
persons who engage in illegal drug
activity commonly engage in the
behaviors described in division (b),
and that these behaviors usually
indicate
criminal
conduct.
This
Council further finds that drug-related activities constitute nuisances
that adversely affect the quality of
life in the neighborhoods of the City
and threatens the public health,
safety and welfare.
(b)
Offense.
No
person
shall
engage in the following behaviors
in or about any public place, or any
place open to the public, or any private place visible from a public
place, with the specific intent to
engage in drug-related activity contrary to the provisions of RC Chapters 2925 or 4729 or Chapter 607 of
these Codified Ordinances:
(1) To repeatedly stop, beckon to,
attempt to stop passersby except in
case of emergency; or
(2) To repeatedly stop, beckon to,
or attempt to stop motor vehicles,
other than motor vehicles for hire
and except in case of emergency, by
hailing, waving arms or making
other bodily gestures; or
(3) To act as a look-out; or
(4) To repeatedly interfere with
the free passage of other persons; or
(5) To transfer small objects or
packages in a furtive or surreptitious fashion in exchange for cur-

1003

17
rency or any other thing of value,
such as to lead an observer to
believe or ascertain that a drug sale
has or is about to occur; or
(6) To carry small objects or
packages in one’s mouth and to
transfer such objects or packages to
another person for currency or any
other thing of value, or to swallow
or attempt to swallow the objects or
packages if approached by a law
enforcement officer.
(c) Prima Facie Case. A prima
facie case may be established by a
law enforcement officer’s observations of the offender’s behavior and
his questioning of the person. The
seizure or recovery of illegal drugs
shall not be a prerequisite to establishing a prima facie case.
(d) Rebuttable Presumption. A
person shall be rebuttably presumed
to have the mens rea of specific
intent to engage in drug-related
activity contrary to the provisions of
RC Chapters 2925 or 4729 or Chapter 607 of these Codified Ordinances
if the person persists in one or more
of the behaviors described in division (b) of this section after a law
enforcement officer gives the person
reasonable warning to desist, and:
(1) The person is a “known
unlawful drug offender, user, possessor or seller” as defined in division (e) of this section; or
(2) The person is identified by a
law enforcement officer as a member of a gang or association which
has as its principal purpose illegal
drug activity.
This rebuttable presumption shall
not apply if the person is engaged
in otherwise lawful activity at the
time, and when questioned by a
police officer, provides a credible
explanation of his or her conduct
that is consistent with lawful activity.
(e) Definitions. As used in this
section:
(1) “Known unlawful drug offender, user, possessor or seller”
means a person who, within five
(5) years prior to the arrest for a
violation of this section, and within the knowledge of the arresting
officer, has been convicted of a violation of this section or of any
drug-related offense contrary to the
provisions of RC Chapter 2925 or
4729 or Chapter 607 of these Codified Ordinances, or contrary to any
substantially similar law of any
other municipal corporation of the
state of Ohio.
(2) “Public place” has the same
meaning as in Section 101.02, division (o), of the Codified Ordinances.
(e) Penalty. Whoever violates the
provisions of this section is guilty
of engaging in prohibited drugrelated activity, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. Notwithstanding
any other section of this Code, a
fine of at least five hundred dollars
($500.00) is mandatory upon conviction of an offense under this section.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Saffety,
Legislation,
Finance.

The City Record

18
Ord. No. 926-02.
By
Councilmen
O’Malley
and
Brady.
An emergency ordinance to enact
Sections 675A.01 to 675A.11 and
675A.99 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 relating to
door-to-door solicitors; and to amend
Section 675.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 532-93, passed June 14,
1993, relating to definitions and
chapter scope of peddlers and produce dealers.
Whereas, door-to-door solicitation
often results in the unwelcome disturbance of citizens and the disruption of privacy; and
Whereas, door-to-door solicitation
can result in criminal activity; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
or safety in that the registration
and regulation of solicitors will protect the privacy of citizens and prevent crime; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Sections 675A.01 to 675A.11 and
675A.99 thereof to read, respectively,
as follows:
CHAPTER 675A
DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITORS
Section 675A.01 Definitions
(a) “Commissioner”, as used in
this chapter, shall mean the City’s
Commissioner
of
Licenses
and
Assessments.
(b) “Solicitation”, as used in this
chapter, means and includes all
activities ordinarily performed by a
solicitor as described in division (c)
of this Section.
(c) “Solicitor”, as used in this
chapter, means any person who goes
upon the premises of any private
residence in the City, not having
been invited by the occupant thereof, for the purpose of any one or
more of the following activities:
(1) to take or to attempt to take
orders for the sale of goods, merchandise, wares, or other personal
property of any nature for either
present or future delivery;
(2) to take orders for services to
be performed either in the present
or in the future;
(3) to request contribution of
funds or anything of value or to sell
goods or services for political, charitable, religious, or other non-commercial purpose; or
(4) to promote or explain any
organization or cause.
Section 675A.02
Permit Requirements
No person shall engage in solicitation activities within the City of
Cleveland without first obtaining a
permit issued in accordance with
this chapter.
Section 675A.03
Permit Application
Application for a solicitation permit shall be made to the Commissioner of Licenses and Assessments
on a form provided by the Commissioner.
The notarized application
shall, at a minimum, require the following information:
(a) the name, address, telephone
number, date of birth, and social

security number of the applicant;
(b) the name, address, telephone
number of the person who will manage the solicitation, as well as the
name, address and telephone number of the company represented, if
any,
including
national,
state,
regional and/or local headquarters;
(c) a brief description of the business or activity to be conducted;
(d) the hours and location for
which the right to solicit is desired;
(e) a statement as to whether or
not the applicant has been convicted of a felony, misdemeanor or ordinance violation, other than minor
traffic violations, the nature of the
offense or violation, the penalty or
punishment imposed, the date when
and
place
where
such
offense
occurred,
and
other
pertinent
details;
(f) a background investigation
report completed by the City of
Cleveland,
Division
of
Police,
Bureau of Criminal Identification;
(g) two (2) passport-size photographs of the applicant which
have been taken within sixty (60)
days immediately prior to the filing
of the application;
(h) a statement to the effect that
if the permit is granted, it will not
be used or represented in any way
as an endorsement by the City of
Cleveland, or by any City Department or officer thereof;
(i) a permit fee of five dollars
($5.00) to cover the cost of processing the application; and
(j) any other information as may
be reasonably required by the Commissioner.
Section
675A.04
Application
Review, Permit Issuance, Identification Badge Issuance
(a) Upon receipt of an application,
the Commissioner, or the Commissioner’s authorized representative,
shall review the application to determine conformance with this chapter.
If the Commissioner finds the application to be satisfactory, the Commissioner shall endorse his approval
on the application and shall, upon
payment of the prescribed fee for an
identification
badge,
deliver
the
required permit and identification
badge to the applicant.
(b) The permit shall contain the
following information:
(1) the permittee’s name and
address;
(2) a description of the goods or
services to be sold or delivered; and
(3) the permit number, permit
issuance date and permit expiration
date.
(c) The identification badge shall
contain the name, address, and photograph of the permittee and other
information deemed necessary by
the Commissioner. Prior to issuance
of the permit and identification
badge, an applicant shall pay a fee
of five dollars ($5.00) to cover the
cost of issuing the identification
badge. In the event that a permittee loses an identification badge,
the Commissioner shall issue a
replacement
identification
badge
upon the payment by the permittee
of a fee of five dollars ($5.00).
Section 675A.05 Denial of Permit
(a) Upon the review of an application by the Commissioner, the
Commissioner may refuse to issue a
permit to an applicant for any of the
following reasons:

1004

May 15, 2002
(1) the applicant failed to submit
all of the documentation required by
Section 675A.03;
(2) the applicant falsified information on the application;
(3) the applicant has been convicted of a felony involving a sex
offense, trafficking in controlled
substances, burglary, theft or any
violent act against persons or property, such conviction being entered
within the five (5) years preceding
the date of the application; or
(4) the applicant has had a permit revoked or suspended within the
last three (3) years.
(b) The Commissioner’s disapproval and the reasons for the disapproval shall be noted on the
application and the applicant shall
be notified that his application is
disapproved and that no permit will
be issued. Notice shall be mailed to
the applicant at the address shown
on the application form.
Section 675A.06 Permit Expiration
All permits issued under this
chapter shall expire ninety (90)
days from the date of issuance.
Section
675A.07
Identification
Badges and Permits
The identification badge issued by
the Commissioner shall be worn by
the permittee in such a manner as
to be conspicuous at all times while
the permittee is soliciting in the
City and the permit shall be kept
upon the person of the permittee at
all times during which the permittee is engaged in soliciting.
Section 675A.08 Transfer Prohibited
No person shall use or wear any
permit or badge issued to another
person and no person shall assign
or transfer any permit or badge
issued pursuant to this chapter.
Section 675A.09 Entry Upon Signed
Premises Unlawful
No person, whether licensed or
unlicensed, while conducting the
business of a solicitor shall enter
upon any residential premises in the
City where the owner, occupant or
person legally in charge of the
premises has posted at the entry to
the premises, or at the entry to the
principal building on the premises,
a sign bearing the words “No Solicitors” or words of similar import.
Such sign shall conform with Chapter 350 of these Codified Ordinances.
Section 675A.10 Hours of Solicitation
No person, while conducting the
activities of a solicitor, whether
licensed or unlicensed, shall enter
upon any private property, knock on
doors or otherwise disturb persons
in their residences between the
hours of sunset and 9:00 a.m.
Section 675A.11 Permit Revocation
or Suspension of Permit; Appeals
(a) Any permit issued pursuant to
this Chapter may be revoked or suspended by the Commissioner, after
notice and hearing, for any of the
following reasons:
(1) failure to comply with the
terms of this chapter or with any
law, rule or regulation relating to
solicitation or the conduct of solicitation;
(2) fraud, misrepresentation or
false statement contained in the
application for a permit;

May 15, 2002
(3) fraud, misrepresentation or
false statement made by the permittee in the course of conducting
solicitation activities;
(4) conducting solicitation activities contrary to the provisions contained in the permit; or
(5) conviction for any crime that
would authorize the denial of a permit as set forth in this chapter.
(b) In the case of the refusal to
issue a permit or the revocation or
suspension of a permit by the Commissioner, the applicant or permittee
may
appeal
the
Commissioner’s
action to the Board of Zoning
Appeals, established pursuant to
Charter Section 76-6. Notice of such
appeal shall be in writing and shall
be filed with the Board within ten
(10) days of the Commissioner’s
action. Within ten (10) days after
the filing of such notice, the Board
shall proceed to hear such appeal,
at which hearing all parties interested shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard. The Board shall
render a decision within ten (10)
days of the conclusion of the hearing.
The Board may sustain, disapprove, or modify the Commissioner’s action, and the Board’s decision
shall be final.
Section 675A.99 Penalty
(a) Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of
improper solicitation, a minor misdemeanor, if the offender has not
previously been convicted of a violation of this chapter.
Each day
upon which a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(b) Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree if
the offender has been previously
convicted of one or more violations
of this chapter.
(c) In addition to any other method
of enforcement provided for in this
chapter, the provisions of division (a)
of this section may be enforced by
the issuance of a citation in compliance with Rule 4.1 of the Ohio Rules
of Criminal Procedure.
Section 2. That Section 675.01 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 532-93, passed June 14,
1993, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 675.01 Definitions; Chapter
Scope
(a) For purposes of this chapter:
(1) “Commissioner” means the
Commissioner
of
Licenses
and
Assessments.
(2) “Peddling” means selling, bartering, or offering or exposing for
sale or barter any goods, wares,
merchandise, menial tasks, such as
painting numbers on curbs, food or
beverages from, in, upon, along, or
through the highways, streets, or
sidewalks of the City, or in the open
air or from a temporary shelter or
vending device upon private property in the City.
(3) “Peddler” means any person
who engages in peddling. “Peddler”
includes “hawker,” “huckster,” and
“solicitor,” but does not include itinerant vendors or itinerant wholesale
produce dealers licensed pursuant to
Chapter 682 and does not include
door-to-door solicitors issued a permit pursuant to Chapter 675A.

The City Record
(4) “Person” means an individual,
corporation, partnership or association; provided however, that for purposes of Section 675.02, “person”
shall mean a natural person only.
(5) “Potentially hazardous food”
means any food that consists in
whole or in part of milk or milk
products, eggs, meat, poultry, fish,
shellfish, edible crustacea, or other
ingredients
including
synthetic
ingredients, in a form capable of
supporting rapid and progressive
microorganisms. The term does not
include clean, whole, uncracked,
odor-free shell eggs or foods which
have a pH level of 4.6 or below or
a water activity (aw) value of 8.85
or less.
(6) “Sidewalk” means that portion
of the street between the curb lines
or the lateral lines of a roadway
and the adjacent property line.
(7) “Street” means street, alley,
highway, roadway or avenue, including all curbs along such streets.
(8) “Vending device” means a container for the sale, display or transport of goods, wares, merchandise,
equipment used for menial tasks,
food or beverages by a peddler,
which container has wheels and is
capable of being moved by one person by muscular power.
(b) Scope of Chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply
to sales made to dealers by commercial travelers or selling agents
in the usual course of business, to
bona fide sales of goods, wares, or
merchandise by samples for future
delivery, to sales at trade shows or
conventions, or to sales by charitable organizations in conjunction
with solicitations for charity.
(c) Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed to prohibit the distribution of non-commercial handbills,
cards, leaflets, or other literature
upon the sidewalks of the City.
Section 3. That existing Section
675.01 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 532-93, passed June
14, 1993, is hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Public Health, City Planning
Commission, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Public Health, City
Planning, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 927-02.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 11720 Browning and
12006 Mt. Overlook to Cleveland
Housing Network, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of

1005

19
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 129-09-067
and
129-05-022,
as
more
fully
described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 129-09-067
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
7 in The Rice Boulevard Subdivision
No. 2 of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 420, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 39 of
Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Browning
Avenue, S.E., and extending back
between parallel lines 110 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 129-05-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
31 in East Boulevard Subdivision of
a part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 420 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 54 of Maps, Page
9 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Southerly
side of Mt. Overlook Avenue and
extending back 119.07 feet on the
Easterly line 118.02 feet on the
Westerly line and having a rear line
of 40.01 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public

20
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 928-01.
By Councilmen Gordon, Sweeney,
Johnson,
Coats,
Cimperman
and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making various public improvements as authorized by the Year XXVIII Community Development Block Grant, and
authorizing the Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Utilities to enter into
contract for the making of the various public improvements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of resurfacing, constructing,
reconstructing, grading, draining,
curbing, catch basins, tree lawns,
tree planting, road side beautification, and all other street improvements in each of the districts established by the Director of Community Development for the Division of
Engineering
and
Construction,
Department of Public Service, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Directors of
Public
Service
and
Community
Development are hereby authorized
and directed to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
the
public
improvement set forth in Section 1
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement, provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing, reconstructing, resurfacing, grading, curbing,
catch basins, sidewalks, handicap
ramps, reconstructing tree lawns,
and other street improvements in
each of the districts established by
the Director of Community Develop-

The City Record
ment for the Divisions of Streets
and Engineering and Construction,
Department of Public Service, by the
direct employment of the necessary
labor and the purchase or rental of
the necessary supplies and materials for the making of said improvement, with a separate accounting as
to each improvement so made.
Section 4. That the Directors of
Public
Service
and
Community
Development are hereby authorized
and directed to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or all
of the items comprising the necessary supplies and materials for the
improvement set forth in Section 3,
including the rental of necessary
equipment, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service.
Section 5. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing, reconstructing, and rehabilitating parks, playgrounds, swimming pools, and recreation areas, including the installation of lighting, signs, streetscapes
and related improvements, in each
of the districts established by the
Director of Community Development
for the Division of Research, Planning and Development, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties,
by contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 6. That the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Community Development are
hereby authorized and directed to
enter into contract for the making
of the public improvement set forth
in Section 5 with the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 7. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing, reconstructing, and rehabilitating parks, playgrounds, swimming pools, community centers, senior citizens’ centers,
recreation centers, and recreation
areas in each of the districts established by the Director of Community Development for the Division of
Maintenance, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, by the
direct employment of the necessary
labor and the purchase or rental of
the necessary supplies and materials for the making of said improvement, with a separate accounting as
to each improvement so made.
Section 8. That the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Community Development are
hereby authorized and directed to
make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the items
comprising the necessary supplies
and materials for said improvement
set forth in Section 7, including the

1006

May 15, 2002
rental of necessary equipment, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Maintenance, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Section 9. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing, reconstructing, and rehabilitating retention
basins,
culverts,
sewers,
catch
basins,
manholes
and
appurtenances, in each of the districts
established by the Director of Community Development for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 10. That the Directors of
Public
Utilities
and
Community
Development are hereby authorized
and directed to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
the
public
improvement set forth in Section 9
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement, provided however that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 11. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement
of
installing
lighting
on
streets, parking lots, and recreation
areas in each of the districts established by the Director of Community Development for the Division of
Light and Power, Department of
Public Utilities, by contract duly let
to the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement.
Section 12. That the Directors of
Public
Utilities
and
Community
Development are hereby authorized
and directed to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
the
public
improvement set forth in Section 11
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement, provided however that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 13. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement
of
installing
lighting
on
streets, parking lots, and recreation
areas in each of the districts established by the Director of Community Development for the Division of
Light and Power, Department of
Public Utilities, by direct employment of the necessary labor and the
purchase or rental of the necessary
supplies and materials for the making of said improvement, with a separate accounting as to each improvement so made.
Section 14. That the Directors of
Public
Utilities
and
Community
Development are hereby authorized
and directed to make a written con-

May 15, 2002
tract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or all
of the items comprising the necessary supplies and materials for said
improvement set forth in Section 13,
including the rental of necessary
equipment, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Light and Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Section 15. That the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Community Development are
hereby authorized to make a written contract in accordance with the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or
all of the following items: furnish
and plant trees in the Community
Development
Block
Grant
areas
established by the Director of Community Development, for the Division of Parks Maintenance, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Section 16. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing, reconstructing, and rehabilitating swimming
pools, recreation, community, and
senior citizens’ centers, including
the installation of signs, in the Community Development Block Grant
districts established by the Director
of Community Development for the
Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service, by contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding for
a gross price for the improvement.
Section 17. That the Directors of
Public
Service
and
Community
Development are hereby authorized
and directed to enter into contract
for the making of the improvement
set forth in Section 16 with the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for a gross price for
the improvement, provided, however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of said director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, upon all items
constituting units of said improvement.
Section 18. That the Directors of
Public
Service
and
Community
Development are hereby authorized
and directed to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or all
of the items comprising the necessary supplies, equipment, and materials for the improvement set forth
in Section 16, including the installation and the rental of necessary
equipment, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Architecture, Department of
Public Service.
Section 19. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of resurfacing, constructing,
reconstructing, grading, draining,
curbing,
sidewalks,
curb
ramps,
catch basins, tree lawns, streets,
tree planting, roadside beautifica-

The City Record
tion, and all other improvements to
streets and their appurtenances in
the various Community Development
Block Grant eligible areas, exclusive from any work to be performed
pursuant to any other section of this
or any other ordinance, by public
improvement requirement contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of
Public Service. That the Directors of
Public
Service
and
Community
Development are hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract with the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for all of such work
estimated to be done during the
period ending December 31, 2003,
upon a unit basis, the unit prices for
which shall include all labor, material and equipment required therefor, with no fixed price for items not
subject to competitive bidding. Separate requirement contracts may be
let for the work to be done in each
of the districts established by the
Director
of
Community
Development.
Section 20. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined
to make the public improvement of
resurfacing,
constructing,
reconstructing, grading, draining, curbing, sidewalks, curb ramps, catch
basins, tree lawns, streets, tree
planting,
roadside
beautification,
and
all
other
improvements
to
streets and their appurtenances in
the various Community Development
Block Grant eligible areas, exclusive
from any work to be performed pursuant to any other section of this or
any
other
ordinance,
by
public
improvement requirement contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after
competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Service. That
the Directors of Public Service and
Community Development are hereby
authorized
to
make
a
written
requirement contract with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for all of such work estimated to be done during the period
ending December 31, 2003, upon a
unit basis, the unit prices for which
shall include all labor, material and
equipment required therefor, with no
fixed price for items not subject to
competitive bidding. Separate requirement contracts may be let for
the work to be done in each of the
districts established by the Director
of Community Development.
Section 21. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating of parks, playgrounds, swimming pools, including
the installation of signs, and all
other improvements to recreation
areas and their appurtenances in the
various
Community
Development
Block Grant eligible areas, exclusive from any work to be performed
pursuant to any other section of this
or any other ordinance, by public
improvement requirement contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement for the Division of Maintenance, Department of Parks, Recre-

1009

21
ation and Properties. That the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Community Development
are hereby authorized to make a
written requirement contract with
the lowest responsible bidder after
competitive bidding for all of such
work estimated to be done during
the period ending December 31, 2003,
upon a unit basis, the unit prices for
which shall include all labor, material and equipment required therefor, with no fixed price for items not
subject to competitive bidding. Separate requirement contracts may be
let for the work to be done in each
of the districts established by the
Director
of
Community
Development.
Section 22. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined
to make the public improvement of
constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating of parks, playgrounds, swimming pools, including the installation of signs, and all other improvements to recreation areas and their
appurtenances in the various Block
Grant eligible areas, exclusive from
the work to be performed pursuant
to any other section of this or any
other ordinance, by public improvement requirement contract duly let
to the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement for
the Division of Research, Planning
and Development, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties.
That the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Community Development are hereby authorized to make a written requirement
contract with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding for
all of such work estimated to be
done
during
the
period
ending
December 31, 2003, upon a unit basis,
the unit prices for which shall
include all labor, material and equipment required therefor, with no
fixed price for items not subject to
competitive
bidding.
Separate
requirement contracts may be let for
the work to be done in each of the
districts established by the Director
of Community Development.
Section 23. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined
to make the public improvement of
constructing,
reconstructing,
and
rehabilitating of retention basins,
culverts, sewers, catch basins, manholes and their appurtenances, in the
various
Community
Development
Block Grant eligible areas, exclusive
from any work to be performed pursuant to any other section of this or
any
other ordinance,
by
public
improvement requirement contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder
after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public
Utilities. That the Directors of Public Utilities and Community Development are hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding for all of
such work estimated to be done during the period ending December 31,
2003, upon a unit basis, the unit
prices for which shall include all
labor,
material
and
equipment
required therefor, with no fixed
price for items not subject to competitive bidding. Separate requirement contracts may be let for the

22
work to be done in each of the districts established by the Director of
Community Development.
Section 24. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement
of
constructing
sidewalks,
handicap ramps, curbing and reconstructing treelawns in areas of the
City of Cleveland determined eligible by the Directors of Community
Development and Public Service.
The Directors of Community Development and Public Service are hereby authorized to enter into public
improvement requirement contract
with the lowest bidder after advertising for all such work during the
period ending December 31, 2003,
upon a unit basis. In the discretion
of the Board of Control, separate
requirement contracts may be let for
specified districts within the City.
Section 25. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined
to make the public improvement of
constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating, and installing streets, parking lots, recreation area lighting and
their appurtenances in the various
Community
Development
Block
Grant eligible areas, exclusive from
any work to be performed pursuant
to any other section of this or any
other ordinance, by public improvement requirement contract duly let
to the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement for
the Division of Light and Power,
Department of Public Utilities. That
the Directors of Public Utilities and
Community Development are hereby
authorized
to
make
a
written
requirement contract with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for all of such work estimated to be done during the period
ending December 31, 2003, upon a
unit basis, the unit prices for which
shall include all labor, material and
equipment required therefor, with no
fixed price for items not subject to
competitive bidding. Separate requirement contracts may be let for
the work to be done in each of the
districts established by the Director
of Community Development.
Section 26. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement
of
planting
trees
and
installing accessories in the various
Community
Development
Block
Grant eligible areas, exclusive from
any work to be performed pursuant
to any other section of this or any
other ordinance, by public improvement requirement contract duly let
to the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement for
the Division of Parks and Urban
Forestry,
Department
of
Parks,
Recreation and Properties. That the
Directors of Parks, Recreation and
Properties and Community Development are hereby authorized to make
a written requirement contract with
the lowest responsible bidder after
competitive bidding for all of such
work estimated to be done during
the period ending December 31, 2003,
upon a unit basis, the unit prices for
which shall include all labor, material and equipment required therefor, with no fixed price for items not
subject to competitive bidding. Separate requirement contracts may be

The City Record
let for the work to be done in each
of the districts established by the
Director of Community Development
Section 27. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing, reconstructing, and rehabilitating of community centers, senior citizens’ centers,
recreation centers, and other public
buildings, including the installation
of signs, in the various Community
Development Block Grant eligible
areas, exclusive from any work to
be performed pursuant to any other
section of this or any other ordinance, by contract duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for a gross price for
the improvement.
Section 28. That the Directors of
Public Service, Parks, Recreation and
Properties, and Community Development are hereby authorized and
directed to enter into contract for the
making of the public improvement
set forth in Section 27 with the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for a gross price for the
improvement, provided, however, that
each separate trade and each distinct
component part of said improvement
may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination, of such trades or components
may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price. Upon request
of said directors the contractor shall
furnish a correct schedule of unit
prices, including profit and overhead,
upon all items constituting units of
said improvement.
Section 29. That the Directors of
Public Service, Parks, Recreation
and
Properties,
and
Community
Development are hereby authorized
and directed to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or all
of the following items: furniture and
equipment to be utilized in conjunction with the making of the public
improvement authorized in Section
27 above.
Section 30. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing, reconstructing, and rehabilitating of community centers, senior citizens’ centers,
recreation centers, and other public
buildings in the various Community
Development Block Grant eligible
areas, including the installation of
recreational
equipment,
exclusive
from any work to be performed pursuant to any other section of this or
any
other
ordinance,
by
public
improvement requirement contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement for the Division of Maintenance, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties. That the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Community Development
are hereby authorized and directed
to make a written requirement contract with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding for
all of such work estimated to be
done
during
the
period
ending
December 31, 2003, upon a unit basis,
the unit prices for which shall
include
all
labor,
material
and
equipment required therefor, with
no fixed price for items not subject
to competitive bidding. Separate

1008

May 15, 2002
requirement contracts may be let for
the work to be done in each of the
districts established by the Director
of Community Development.
Section 31. That the Directors of
Public Service, Parks, Recreation
and Properties, Public Utilities and
Community Development are hereby
authorized and directed to employ
by contract one or more architectural or engineering consultants or
firms of architectural or engineering consultants for the purpose of
supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to prepare plans and
specifications for and to oversee the
public improvements authorized by
the various sections of this ordinance. The selection of the consultants for such services shall be
made by the Board of Control upon
the nomination of the director or
directors authorized to enter into
the contract for the making of the
public improvement from a list of
qualified consultants available for
such employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass for the purpose of compiling
such a list. The compensation to be
paid for such services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 32. That the Director of
Finance shall certify the contracts
authorized by Sections 19 through
26, inclusive, and Section 30 of this
ordinance in the amount set forth
in the initial requisition and thereafter he shall certify all orders
placed by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to the
requisition issued against any such
contract.
Section 33. That the costs of the
improvements or contracts hereby
authorized shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 14 SC 026 and 027.
Section 34. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
Public Utilities, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development,
Public
Service,
Public
Parks, Property and Recreation, Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 929-02.
By Councilmen Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various social service
agencies, community development or
local development corporations and
private for profit entities and to
enter into or amend memorandums
of understanding with various City
of Cleveland departments to implement the City’s community development programs and to expend funds
for
the
operation
of
programs
administered by the Department of
Community Development.

May 15, 2002
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 28 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has approved the Year
27 Community Development Block
Grant Plan as set forth in File No.
130-02-A, pursuant to Ordinance No.
130-02, passed April 1, 2002; and
Whereas, in prior Block Grant
years, the Council has approved
Block Grant Plans; and
Whereas, the Block Grant Plans
as approved commit funds to Neighborhood
Development
Activities
(“NDA”), which are CDBG eligible
activities proposed by the various
Council members; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with various social service agencies, community development or local development corporations and private for
profit entities for activities and programs that are eligible under the
Community
Development
Block
Grant (“CDBG”) Program and are
consistent with the City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City
departments to implement activities
and programs that are eligible
under the CDBG Program and are
consistent with the City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into contract using NDA Funds with
rehabilitation service providers, tenants, homeowners, and entities providing services necessary to process
loans and grants to implement the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs, Paint Refund Program and
other programs administered by the
Department of Community Development.
Section 4. That prior to entering
into or amending those contracts or
memorandums of understanding, or
expending any funds, the Director
of Community Development shall
receive written approval from the
Council member whose ward line
item is to fund the activity or program, provided that the amount for
such activity or program does not
exceed the amount allocated for the
Council member’s ward pursuant to
the relevant Community Development Block Grant plan.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts, memorandums of understanding and expenditures for the programs administered by the Department of Community Development shall not exceed $9,450,000.00
and shall be paid from Fund Nos. 14
SC 028.
Section 6. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into or

The City Record
amend contracts with the entities
administering the NDA program
that generated the program income
in an amount not to exceed that generated
program
income
and
to
expend funds for the programs
administered by the Department of
Community Development that generated
program
income
in
an
amount not to exceed that generated program income in an amount
not to exceed that generated program income, all to be paid from the
revolving fund in Fund 14.
Section 7. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of loans made under this program.
Section 8. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter in forbearance
agreements with any recipient of a
validly existing loan administered
by the City, and to charge and
accept fees and to expend such fees
to cover costs incurred in the preparation of loan documents, closing,
and servicing costs. Such fees shall
be deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 14.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 930-02.
By Councilmen Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with Cleveland Housing Network, or
its designee, for the acquisition,
rehabilitation, or construction of low
income housing units.
Whereas, this ordinances constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Cleveland Housing Network, or
its designee, for the acquisition,
rehabilitation or construction of low
income
rental
or
lease-purchase
housing units.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $2,000,000.00, and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 13 SC 955,
Request No. 125704.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

1009

23
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 931-02.
By Councilmen Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with Cleveland Action to Support
Housing (CASH) for administrative
costs to implement housing rehabilitation, new housing construction
and commercial redevelopment loan
programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Cleveland Action to Support
Housing (CASH) for administrative
costs to implement housing rehabilitation, new housing construction
and commercial redevelopment loan
programs in the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the aggregate cost
of said contract shall be in an
amount not to exceed $500,000.00,
and shall be paid from Fund No. 14
SC 027 and 028, Request No. 125706.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 932-02.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 57th Street to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-28-066
and
118-28-065,
as
more
fully

24
described below, to Burten, Bell,
Carr Development, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-28-066
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
25 in W.S. Chamberlain’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 334, as shown by the
recorded plat of said Allotment in
Volume 6 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Records, said Sublot
No. 25 has a frontage of 38 feet 7
inches on the Easterly side of East
57th Street and extends back 150
feet on the Northerly line, 150 feet
on the Southerly line and has a rear
line of 41 feet, 8 1/2 inches, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 118-28-065
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a Southerly part of Sublot No. 24 in W.S.
Chamberlain’s Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Township Lot No. 334 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 6 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Said part of Sublot No. 24
has a frontage of 35 feet on the
Easterly side of East 57th Street (60
feet wide), extends back between
parallel lines of 150 feet along the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 24
and contains 0.1205 acres of land, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 933-02.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located between Cedar and Central along East 40th and East 43rd
Streets to Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-23-011 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-011
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
48 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 71,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 11 of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 43rd Street (formerly Arlington
Court) and extending back 60.21 feet
on the Northerly line, 60.22 feet on
the Southerly line, and having a
rear line of 40 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-23-012 as
more
fully
described
below
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-012
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
47 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 71,

1010

May 15, 2002
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 11 of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 43rd Street, and extending
back 60.22 feet on the Northerly line,
60.23 feet on the Southerly line, and
having a rear line of 40 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-23-013 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
46 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 71,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 11 of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 43rd Street, and extending
back 60.24 feet on the Southerly line,
60.23 feet on the Northerly line, and
having a rear line of 40 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-23-014 as
more fully described, to Burten, Bell,
Carr Development, Inc.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-014
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
45 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 71,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 11 of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 43rd Street (formerly Arlington
Court) and extending back of equal
width 60.24 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
44 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 71, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 11 of Maps, Page
17 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 43rd Street (formerly
Arlington
Court)
and
extending
back 60.24 feet on the Northerly line,
60.25 feet on the Southerly line, and
having a rear line of 40 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-23-015 as

May 15, 2002
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-015
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
43 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 71,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 11 of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 43rd Street (formerly Arlington
Court) and extending back 60.25 feet
on the Northerly line, 60.26 feet on
the Southerly line and having a rear
line of 40 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-23-081 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-081
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 113 in William Williams’
Subdivision of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and 70, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga
County Records and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 40th Street (formerly Case
Avenue) at the Northwesterly corner of Sublot No. 113; thence Southerly along the Easterly line of East
40th Street, 33 feet to the Northwesterly corner of land conveyed to
the Board of Education of the City
School District of the City of Cleveland by deed dated March 28, 1939
and recorded in Volume 4933, Page
116 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Easterly along the Northerly line of land so conveyed, 190 feet
to the Northeasterly corner thereof;
thence Southerly along the Easterly line of land so conveyed, 33 feet
to the Southerly line of said Sublot
No. 113; thence Easterly along the
Southerly line of said Sublot No.
113, about 107.83 feet to the Southeasterly
corner
thereof;
thence
Northerly along the Easterly line of
said Sublot, 66 feet to the Northeasterly
corner
thereof;
thence
Westerly along the Northerly line
of said Sublot No. 113, 299.25 feet to
the place of beginning, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is hereby authorized to
sell Permanent Parcel No. 103-23082 as more fully described below,
to Burten, Bell, Carr Development,
Inc.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

The City Record
P. P. No. 103-23-082
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 60 feet of Sublot No. 112
in William Williams’ Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos.
67, 68, 69 and 70, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 60 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 40th
Street, and extending back 299.25
feet deep on the Southerly line,
about
300.00
feet
deep
on
the
Northerly line, and having a rear
line of 60 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-23-083 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-083
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 33 feet of Sublot No. 111
in William Williams’ Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos.
67, 68, 69 and 70, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 33 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 40th
Street, and extending back of equal
width about 300 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-23-084 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-084
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
107 and the Westerly 10 feet front
to rear of Sublot No. 108 in William
William’s Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and
70, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records and together
forming a parcel of land bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 40th Street (formerly Case
Avenue) at the Southwesterly corner
of Sublot No. 107; thence Northerly,
along the Easterly line of East 40th
Street, 66 feet to the Northwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 107; thence
Easterly along the Northerly line of
Sublot No. 107, 150 feet to the Westerly line of Sublot No. 108; thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
Sublot No. 108, 99 feet to the Southerly line of Cedar Avenue, S.E., thence
Easterly along said Southerly line
of Cedar Avenue, S.E., 10 feet;
thence Southerly and parallel with
the Easterly line of Sublot No. 108,
165 feet to the Southerly line of

1011

25
Sublot No. 108; thence Westerly
along the Southerly lines of Sublot
No. 108 and 107, to place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-23-090 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-090
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 6 feet of Sublot No. 112
and the Southerly 33 feet of Sublot
No. 111 in William Williams’ Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre
Lot Nos. 67, 68, 69 and 70, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land having frontage of 39
feet on the Easterly side of East
40th Street, and extending back
about 300 feet deep on the Southerly line, about 301 feet deep on the
Northerly line, and having a rear
line of 39 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-008 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-008
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Ten Acre Lot No. 71, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 43rd Street (formerly Arlington court) at the Southwesterly corner of Sublot No. 24 in the W.J. Gordon’s Allotment as recorded in Volume 11 of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga
County
Records;
thence
Southerly along the Easterly line of
East 43rd Street, 39 feet 10 inches;
thence Easterly parallel with the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 24,
60 feet; thence Northerly parallel
with the Easterly line of East 43rd
Street, 39 feet 10 inches; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
said Sublot No. 24, 60 feet to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-009 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

26
P. P. No. 103-24-009
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
24 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment and
Subdivision of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot No. 71, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 11 of Maps,
Page
17
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 43rd Street
(formerly Livingston Street) and 60
feet deep and being of uniform
width as shown by said recorded
Map; said Street being (formerly
Arlington Court) at the point occupied by said Sublot No. 24.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 25. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-013 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 20 in the W.J. Gordon’s
Subdivision of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot No. 71 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 11 of Maps,
Page
17
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, said Sublot has a frontage
of 40.00 feet on the Easterly side of
East 43rd Street, and extends back
of equal width 60 feet as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 27. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is hereby authorized to
sell Permanent Parcel No. 103-24014 as more fully described below,
to Burten, Bell, Carr Development,
Inc.
Section 28. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-014
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
19 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 71
and being 40 feet on (Arlington
Court) now East 43rd Street, and
extending back of equal width 60
feet, as per record of said Allotment
recorded in Volume 11, Page 17 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 29. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is hereby authorized to
sell Permanent Parcel No. 103-24015 as more fully described below,
to Burten, Bell, Carr Development,
Inc.

The City Record
Section 30. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-015
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
18 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 71,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 11 of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 43rd Street and extending back
between parallel lines 60 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 31. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-017 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 32. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-017
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 42 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 87 in W.J. Gordon’s
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lots Nos. 71, 72 and 73, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Allotment in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
57
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 42 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 46th Street
(formerly
Kennard
Street),
and
extending back of equal width 150
feet deep, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 33. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-018 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 34. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-018
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 18 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 87 and the Northerly
20 feet from front to rear of Sublot
No. 88 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos.
71, 72 and 73 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page
57 of Cuyahoga County Records and
together forming a parcel of land
having a frontage of 38 feet on the
Westerly side of East 46th Street
(formerly
Kennard
Street),
and
extending back of equal width 150
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.

1012

May 15, 2002
Section 35. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-019 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 36. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-019
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 40 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 88 in W.J. Gordon’s
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lots Nos. 71, 72 and 73, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Allotment in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
57
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Said part of Sublot No. 88
has a frontage of 40 feet on the
Westerly side of East 46th Street
(formerly Kennard Street) and extending back between parallel lines
150 feet as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 37. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-024 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 38. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-024
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 27 feet of Sublot No. 91 in
W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of part of
Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 71, 72
and 73, as shown by the recorded
plat of said Allotment in Volume 5
of Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga County Records. Said part of Sublot No.
91 has a frontage of 27 feet on the
Westerly side of East 46th Street
(formerly
Kennard
Street),
and
extends back between parallel lines
150 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to Zoning Ordinances,
if any.
Section 39. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-025 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 40. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-025
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
92 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos.
71, 72 and 73, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
57
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 46th Street

May 15, 2002
and extending back of equal width
150 feet deep, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 41. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-027 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 42. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-027
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
6 in Pitkin and Watterson’s Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre
Lot No. 71, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
The said allotment being of record
in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 7 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being
36.66 feet front on the Westerly line
of East 46th Street and extending
back of equal width 140.75 feet deep.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 43. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-25-001 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 44. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-25-001
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
16 and 10 feet in width from front
to rear of the south side of Sublot
No. 15, of W.J. Gordon’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. Original Ten Acre Lot
No. 71, in said City, being 50 feet
front on the east side of Livingston
Street (now East 43rd Street) and 60
feet deep according to the plat of
said Subdivision in Volume 11 of
Maps, Page 17 in the office of the
Recorded of said County, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 45. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-25-002 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 46. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-25-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 20 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 14 and the Northerly
30 feet from front to rear of Sublot
No. 15 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot No. 71,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 11 of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together
forming a parcel of land 50 feet

The City Record
front on the Easterly side of Arlington Court, now known as East 43rd
Street, and extending back of equal
width 60 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 47. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-25-020 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 48. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-25-020
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
82 in W.J. Gordon’s Subdivision of a
part of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos.
71, 72 and 73, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
57
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 60 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 46th Street
(formerly
Kennard
Street),
and
extending back of equal width 150
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 49. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-25-023 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 50. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-25-023
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Sublot No. 86 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of a part of Original Ten Acre
Lots Nos. 71, 72 and 73 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 46th Street (formerly Kennard
Street) at the Southeast corner of
said Sublot No. 86; thence Northerly
15 feet along the Westerly line of
East 46th Street to a point; thence
Westerly 96 feet and parallel to the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 86
to a point; thence Northerly 45 feet
and parallel to the Westerly line of
East 46th Street to a point in the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 86;
thence Westerly 54 feet along the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 86
to the Northwest corner thereof;
thence Southerly 60 feet along the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 86 to
the Southwest corner thereof; thence
Easterly 150 feet along the Southerly line of said Sublot No. 86 to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 51. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

1013

27
plies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-25-070 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 52. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-25-070
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 86 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre
Lots Nos. 71, 72 and 73, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly side of
East 46th Street (formerly Kennard
Street) at the Northeast corner of
said Sublot No. 86; thence Southerly
45 feet along the Westerly line of
East 46th Street to a point; thence
Westerly 96 feet and parallel to the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 86
to a point; thence Northerly 45 feet
and parallel to the Westerly line of
East 46th Street to a point in the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 86;
thence Easterly 96 feet along the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 86
to
the
place
of
beginning,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 53. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of
the effective date of this ordinance.
If all of the documents are not executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance, or
such additional time as may be
granted by the Director of Community Development, this ordinance
shall be repealed and shall be of no
further force or effect.
Section 54. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 55. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 56. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.

28
Ord. No. 934-02.
By Councilmen Britt, Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a loan and
grant agreement with Buckeye Area
Development Corporation to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the renovation of
real property located at 11801-11
Buckeye Road, and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property, located in Cleveland,
Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a loan and
grant agreement with Buckeye Area
Development Corporation to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the renovation of
real property located at 11801-11
Buckeye Road, and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property, located in Cleveland,
Ohio (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance
with the terms as set forth in the Summary contained in File No. 934-02-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
loan shall not exceed Five Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00), and
shall be paid from Fund No. 17 SF
008, which funds are appropriated
for this purpose, and the cost of the
grant shall not exceed One Hundred
Five Thousand Dollars ($105,000.00),
and shall be paid from Fund No. 17
SF 652, Request No. 103557.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept the collateral
as set forth in the Summary contained in the file referenced above
in order to secure repayment of said
loan. Any security instrument shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and such fees are hereby
appropriated
to
cover
costs
incurred in the preparation of the
loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 935-02.
By Councilmen Britt, Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Buckeye Area
Development Corporation to provide
for a ten year sixty percent abatement for certain tangible personal
property and real estate taxes as an
incentive to renovate space at 1180111 Buckeye Road, located in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, Buckeye Area Development Corporation (the “Enterprise”)
has proposed to renovate space
located at 11801-11 Buckeye Road,
and all other associated costs to
redevelop the property located in
Cleveland, Ohio; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of personal property and real
estate taxes the Enterprise would be
at a competitive disadvantage by
operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and
for the further reason that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, such assistance being immediately necessary
or such jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a ten year sixty percent (60%) abatement for certain
tangible personal property and real
estate taxes as an incentive to renovate space at 11801-11 Buckeye

1014

May 15, 2002
Road, Cleveland, Ohio, for purposes
of leasing said space to Beech
Brook; said abatement shall be subject to annual review of the Tax
Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Summary contained in File No.
935-02-A.
The terms of said file
notwithstanding, the terms of the
tax abatement shall not be amended, nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferrable to any
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code.
Such fees shall
be deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 936-02.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Gordon and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Operative Plasterers’ and Cement
Masons’ International Association
Local 404 to provide economic development
assistance
to
partially
finance the construction of an addition to their facility, to renovate the
existing space, for site improvement, and all other associated costs
necessary to redevelop the property
located at located at 1417 East 25th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with
Operative
Plasterers’
and
Cement Masons’ International Association Local 404 to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the construction of
an addition to their facility, to renovate the existing space, for site
improvement, and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property located at 1417 East
25th Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of said

May 15, 2002
loan shall be in accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Summary
contained in File No. 936-02-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed One Hundred
Twenty
Thousand
Dollars
($120,000), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 008, which funds are
appropriated
for
this
purpose,
Request No. 103556.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept the collateral
as set forth in the Summary contained in the file referenced above
in order to secure repayment of said
loan. Any security instrument shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept
fees in an amount not to exceed the
maximum allowable fees under federal regulations and such fees are
hereby appropriated to cover costs
incurred in the preparation of the
loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. Such fees shall
be deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 937-02.
By Councilmen Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with the Greater Cleveland
Growth Association to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the costs to prepare applications to the U.S. Department of Commerce to designate certain areas of the ISG Cleveland, Inc.
site as a Foreign Trade Zone.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a grant
agreement with the Greater Cleveland Growth Association to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the costs to prepare applications to the U.S. Department of Commerce to designate certain areas of the ISG Cleveland, Inc.
site as a Foreign Trade Zone.

The City Record
Section 2. That the costs of said
grant shall not exceed $50,000.00 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 17 SF
652, Request No. 103559.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said grant agreement and such
other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 938-02.
By Councilmen Rybka, Cimperman,
Gordon
and
Jackson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
ISG Cleveland, Inc. to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition and
improvement of personal property
located at the company’s plant in
Cleveland, Ohio, and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop the
property, located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with ISG Cleveland, Inc. to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the acquisition and
improvement of personal property
located at the company’s plant in
Cleveland, Ohio, and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property, located in Cleveland,
Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan shall be in accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Summary
contained in File No. 938-02-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Four Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars
($4,500,000.00), and shall be paid
from Fund No. 17 SF 008, which
funds are appropriated for this purpose, Request No. 103558.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept the collateral
as set forth in the Summary contained in the file referenced above
in order to secure repayment of said
loan. Any security instrument shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept
fees in an amount not to exceed the
maximum allowable fees under fed-

1015

29
eral regulations and such fees are
hereby appropriated to cover costs
incurred in the preparation of the
loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. Such fees shall
be deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 939-02.
By Councilmen Rybka, Cimperman,
Gordon
and
Jackson
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with ISG Cleveland, Inc. to provide for a ten year
seventy-five percent abatement for
certain tangible personal property
improvements as an incentive to
resume
significant
steelmaking
operations at the company’s plant,
located in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, ISG Cleveland, Inc. (the
“Enterprise”)
has
proposed
to
resume
significant
steelmaking
operations at the company’s plant,
located in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for tax
abatement
of
personal
property
improvements the Enterprise would
be at a competitive disadvantage by
operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and for
the further reason that its enactment
is a necessary prerequisite to providing immediate assistance to create and preserve job opportunities
and advance and promote commercial and economic development in the
City of Cleveland, such assistance
being immediately necessary or such
jobs will be lost; now, therefore,

30
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a ten year seventyfive percent (75%) abatement for
certain tangible personal property
improvements as an incentive to
resume
significant
steelmaking
operations at the company’s plant,
located in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; said abatement shall be
subject to annual review of the Tax
Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Summary contained in File No.
939-02-A.
The terms of said file
notwithstanding, the terms of the
tax abatement shall not be amended, nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferrable to any
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code.
Such fees shall
be deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 940-02.
By Councilmen Rybka, Gordon
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, the third whereas clause
and Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance
No. 2038-01, passed December 3, 2001,
relating
to
an
Enterprise
Zone
Agreement with Saltzman H-Realty
Co., Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket,
Inc. to provide for tax abatement as
an incentive to construct a new
Dave’s Supermarket at 7422 Harvard
Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title, the third
whereas clause and Sections 1 and
2 of Ordinance No. 2038-01, passed
December 3, 2001, are hereby amended to read, respectively, as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Saltzman HRealty Co., Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket, Inc. to provide for a ten
year sixty percent abatement for
certain tangible personal property
and real estate taxes as an incentive to construct a new Dave’s
Supermarket
at
7422
Harvard
Avenue,
in
the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, Saltzman H-Realty Co.,
Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket, Inc.
(the “Enterprise”) has proposed to
construct a new Dave’s Supermarket
at 7422 Harvard Avenue, in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone;
and
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise to provide for a ten year sixty
percent (50%) abatement for certain tangible personal property and
real estate taxes as an incentive to
construct a new Dave’s Supermarket at 7422 Harvard Avenue, in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone as
more fully described in the file
mentioned below; said abatement
shall be subject to annual review
of the Tax Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set froth in
the Summary contained in File No.
2038-01-B. The terms of said file
notwithstanding, the terms of the
tax abatement shall not be amended, nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferrable to any
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 2. That the existing title,
the third whereas clause and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 203801, passed December 3, 2001, are
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 941-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to maintain and repair boilers, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control.

1016

May 15, 2002
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
maintain and repair boilers in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control.
Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than a
year may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 113521)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 942-02.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency ordinance designating
The
Cleveland
Christian
Home for Children as a Cleveland
Landmark.
Whereas,
the
Cleveland
Landmarks Commission (the “Commission”) pursuant to Chapter 161 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, has proposed the
designation of the Cleveland Christian Home for Children as a landmark; and
Whereas, a public hearing pursuant to Chapter 161.04 (b)(2) was
held on March 14, 2002 to discuss the
proposed designation of the Cleveland Christian Home for Children as
a landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Cleveland Christian Home for Children as
a landmark and has set forth cer-

May 15, 2002
tain findings of fact constituting the
basis for its decision, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Cleveland
Christian Home for Children, whose
street address in the City of Cleveland is 11401 Lorain Avenue, S.W.,
also known as Cuyahoga County
Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number
018-07-006, composed of Sublot Numbers 48 through 83 and vacated West
113th Street, and the land embracing
the site thereof, which in its entirety is a property having special character or special historical or aesthetic value as part of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City, State, or the
United States, be and it hereby is
designated a landmark pursuant to
Chapter 161 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees
on City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 943-02.
By Councilman Britt.
An ordinance to change the zoning of properties on the west side of
Overlook Avenue, north of Carlton
Road. (Map Changes No. 2047 and
2048, Sheet No. 9)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of
Edgehill Rd., S.E. (60 feet wide) at
its intersection with a line extending radially to the curve of said
road, from the Northeasterly corner
of Sublot No. 846 in the Euclid
Heights Allotment as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 36, Page 2
to 15 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Thence Southerly along said radial
line, 30.00 feet to the Northeasterly
corner of said Sublot
No. 846;
Thence Southwesterly along the
Southeasterly lines of Sublot Nos.
846, 10, and 9 in said subdivision,
and along the Southeasterly lines
of Sublot Nos. 174 and 175 in
Andrew
Cozad’s
Allotment
as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County Records, to the Northeasterly line of a parcel of land
conveyed to Case Western Reserve
University by deed dated December
30, 1999 and identified as auditor’s

The City Record
permanent
parcel
no.
121-07-021;
Thence Southeasterly along said
Northeasterly line and along the
Northeasterly line of a second parcel of land conveyed to Case Western Reserve University by said
same deed and identified as auditor’s permanent parcel no. 121-07011, to the Northwesterly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to the Case
Institute of Technology by deed
dated March 18, 1966 and identified
as auditor’s permanent parcel no.
121-07-013;
Thence
Northeasterly
along said Northwesterly line and
the
Northeasterly
prolongation
thereof, to its intersection with the
centerline of Overlook Rd., S.W. (60
feet wide); Thence Northwesterly
and Northerly along said centerline
of Overlook Rd., S.E. to its intersection with the Southeasterly prolongation of the Northeasterly line
of Sublot No. 6-7-8 in the aforementioned Euclid Heights Allotment;
Thence Northwesterly along said
Northeasterly line and its Northwesterly prolongation, to its intersection with the centerline of Edgehill Rd., S.W.; Thence Southwesterly along said centerline to the place
of beginning.
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same is
hereby changed to a ResidenceIndustry District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2047, Sheet No. 9, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of
Edgehill Rd., S.E. (60 feet wide) at
its intersection with the Northwesterly prolongation of the Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 6-7-8 in
the Euclid Heights Allotment as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 36 of Maps, Page 2 to 15 of
Cuyahoga County Records. Thence
Southeasterly along said prolongation and Northeasterly line and its
Southeasterly
prolongation
to
a
point in the centerline of Overlook
Rd., S.E. (60 feet wide); Thence
Northeasterly along said centerline
of Overlook Rd., S.E. to its intersection with the Southeasterly prolongation of the Southwesterly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to
Waldorf
Towers,
Ltd.
by
deed
dated November 4, 1983 and recorded in Volume 83-1396, Page 28 of
Cuyahoga County Records; Thence
Northwesterly along said Southeasterly
prolongation,
Southwesterly
line, and the Northwesterly prolongation thereof to its intersection
with the centerline of Edgehill Rd.,
S.E.; Thence Southwesterly along
said centerline to the place of
beginning.
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same is
hereby changed to a Townhouse
RA3 District.
Section 4. That said changed designation of lands described in Sec-

1017

31
tion 3 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2048, Sheet No. 9, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 5. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 944-02.
By Councilman Zone.
An ordinance to change the zoning of properties on the southeast
and southwest corners of West
54th Street and Herman Avenue
Road. (Map Change No. 2046 Sheet
No. 1)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the centerline of
Herman Avenue N.W. (66.00 feet
wide) at its intersection with the
centerline of West 54th Street (66.00
feet wide); thence Westerly, along
the centerline of said Herman Avenue to its intersection with the
Northerly prolongation of the Westerly line of Sublot Number 394 in the
S.S. Stone Subdivision as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 2, Page
19
of
Cuyahoga
County
Map
Records; thence Southerly, along the
Northerly prolongation and Westerly line of said Sublot Number 394 to
the Southwesterly corner thereof;
thence Easterly, along the Southerly line of Sublot Numbers 394 and
393 and its Easterly prolongation
across West 54th Street and along
the Southerly line of Sublot Numbers
224, 223 and 222 to the Southeasterly corner thereof in said S. S. Stone
Subdivision; thence Northerly, along
the Easterly line of said Sublot
Number 222 and the Northerly prolongation thereof to its intersection
with
the
centerline
of
Herman
Avenue as aforesaid; thence Westerly along said centerline to the
place of beginning.
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same is
hereby changed to a Townhouse
RA2 District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2046, Sheet No. 1, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Council Member Polensek left the
meeting.

The City Record

32

May 15, 2002

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES READ IN FULL AND PASSED
Ord. No. 945-02.
By Councilman Britt (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation to hang 19-location identification banners which will encroach into the right-of-way of
Quincy Avenue between East 79th and East 93rd Streets.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of
Council of the City of Cleveland, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of
Public Service to the Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation, 8520 Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106,
their successors and assigns, to hang nineteen (19) location identification banners, using Cleveland Public Power
(“C.P.P.”) utility poles (by separate permission), and which banners will encroach into the public right-of-way of
Quincy Avenue between East 79th and East 93rd Streets at the following locations:
LOCATION OF BANNER
Eastside of E. 82nd
b/t Quincy & Central
Southeast corner of
E. 79th & Quincy
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 79th & E. 82nd Sts.
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 79th & E. 82nd Sts.
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 79th & E. 82nd Sts.
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 79th & E. 82nd Sts.
South side Quincy
b/t E. 79th & E. 82nd Sts.
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 79th & E. 82nd Sts.
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 82nd & E. 83rd Sts.
South side Quincy
b/t E. 82nd & E. 83rd Sts.
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 82nd & E. 83rd Sts.
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 82nd & E. 83rd Sts.
Southwest corner of
E. 93rd & Quincy
Southwest corner of
E. 93rd & Quincy
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 93rd & E. 90th Sts.
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 93rd & E. 90th Sts.
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 93 & E. 90th Sts.
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 93rd & E. 90th Sts.
South side of Quincy
b/t E. 90th & E. 89th Sts.
Southeast corner of
E. 89th St. & Quincy

POLE

POLE OWNER:

E2-35-16-8-2

C.P.P.

No. Number

C.P.P.

E2-35-16-14

C.P.P.

E2-35-16-13

C.P.P.

E2-35-16-12

C.P.P.

E2-35-16-11

C.P.P.

E2-35-16-10

C.P.P.

E2-35-16-9

C.P.P.

E2-36-16-8

C.P.P.

E2-36-16-7

C.P.P.

MELP 75420

C.P.P.

E2-35-16-6

C.P.P.

E2-25-19A

C.P.P.

E2-25-19-1

C.P.P.

E2-23-19-2

C.P.P.

E2-23-19-2

C.P.P.

E2-25-19-3

C.P.P.

E2-25-19-4

C.P.P.

E2-25-19-6

C.P.P.

E2-25-19-7

C.P.P.

Section 2. That said banners will be placed within the public right-of-way as aforesaid in Section 1 and will
be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That all other required permits, including a Building Permit, shall be obtained before said banners
are constructed and hung.
Section 3. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right, privilege or permission to use or to attach or affix any objects to poles described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Permittee herein authorized shall reserve reasonable right-of-entry to tile City of Cleveland;
and that the Permit shall require the Permittee to provide Commercial General Liability Insurance including Completed Operations Coverage, and that Permittee shall maintain the permitted encroachment area, and that the Permittee shall pay any applicable taxes and assessments due and/or owing on the permitted encroachment area.
Section 5. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 6. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17. Nays 0.

1018

May 15, 2002
Ord. No. 946-02.
By Councilmen Conwell, Pierce
Scott and Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
University Circle Incorporated to
stretch banners on Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive (east of the Cleveland Museum of Natural History),
on Stokes Boulevard, and on Cedar
Hill for the period of May 10, 2002
to June 15, 2002, inclusive publicizing “Parade the Circle Celebration”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to University
Circle Incorporated, 10831 Magnolia
Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44106-1887, to
install, maintain and remove banners located on Martin Luther King
Jr. Drive (east of the Cleveland,
Museum of Natural History), and on
Stokes Boulevard and on Cedar Hill,
for the period of May 10, 2002 to
June 15, 2002, inclusive, publicizing
“Parade the Circle Celebration”. Said
banners shall be approved by the
Director of Public Service in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner, and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 947-02.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the JAMAA Knights
Youth Association for a Football for
Youth Program through the use of
Ward
10
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is autho-

The City Record
rized to enter into an agreement
with the JAMAA Knights Youth
Association for a Football for Youth
Program, for the public purpose of
providing a football program for
Cleveland youth through the use of
Ward
10
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 948-02.
By Councilman Scott.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 12th Annual Miles
Standish Miler Fun Run on June 4,
2002, (raindate: June 5, 2002), sponsored by the Miles Standish Elementary School.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 12th Annual Miles
Standish Miler Fun Run, sponsored
by the Miles Standish Elementary
School, on June 4, 2002, (raindate:
June 5, 2002), beginning at the
school, 1000 East 92nd Street, west
on Parkgate Road to East Boulevard to Parkside Road, north on
Parkside Road to Parkgate Road,
east on Parkgate Road and finish
back at the school, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event.
Said permit
shall further provide that the City
of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from any and all liability
resulting from the issuance of the
same, to the extent and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

1019

33
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 949-02.
By Councilman White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the N-Joy Life Group for
the implementation of the Youth 2
Youth Program through the use of
Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the N-Joy Life Group for the
implementation
of
the
Youth
2
Youth Program, for the public purpose of educating Cleveland youth
on the danger of drug, tobacco and
alcohol use, through the use of
Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 950-02.
By Councilman Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Sagrada Familia Church to stretch
banners at 7750 Detroit Avenue and
7775 Detroit Avenue, for the period
from June 1, 2002 to June 24, 2002,
inclusive, publicizing the Church
Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue
a permit to the Sagrada Familia
Church to install, maintain and re-

34
move banners at 7750 Detroit Avenue (Pole Nos. E 6 43 and E 5 4 dark
brown light poles) and 7775 Detroit
Avenue (Pole Nos. E 6 42 and E 5
5 dark brown light poles), for the
period from June 1, 2002 to June 24,
2002, inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 951-02.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 1930
East 79th Street and repealing Resolution No. 1583-01, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 1930 East 79th Street Resolution No. 1583-01 adopted by Council on August 15, 2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and hereby consents to said
renewal pursuant to the Cooperation
Agreement by and through Patricia
J. Britt and Rosita Kutkut, President of Casciana Corporation, DBA
Quik Pik Market, 1930 East 79th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permit
Number 1302675, and executed by
Susan M. Bungard, Assistant Director of Law; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1.
That objection to the
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 1930
East 79th Street be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1583-01, containing said objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

The City Record
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 952-02.
By Councilman Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the stock transfer of a D5
Liquor Permit to 11239-43 Superior
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a stock
transfer of a D5 Liquor Permit to
Formosa Tavern, Inc., 11239-43 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106
Permanent Number 2821935; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the stock
transfer of a D5 Liquor Permit to
Formosa Tavern, Inc., 11239-43 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106,
Permanent
Number
2821935,
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the

1020

May 15, 2002
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 953-02.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 1199
Addison Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to Yasmene, Inc.,
DBA Mickeys River Market, 1199
Addison
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 9821095.
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit to Yasmene, Inc.,
DBA Mickeys River Market, 1199
Addison
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 9821095,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said

May 15, 2002
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 954-02.
By Councilman O’Malley.
An emergency resolution urging
the Cleveland Board of Education to
continue its evaluation of proposed
school closures to prevent the Closure of William Cullen Bryant Elementary School in Ward 16.
Whereas, in late March, the Cleveland Board of Education announced
the proposed closure of a number of
schools
throughout
the
City
of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
was greatly concerned about the
impact of the proposed school closures on our neighborhoods; and
Whereas, subsequent to the announcement by the Cleveland Board
of Education, members of Council
held a public hearing with Barbara
Byrd Bennett, CEO of the School
District, and other school administrators to gain an understanding of
the rationale and process surrounding the proposed school closures;
and
Whereas, since that initial hearing before Cleveland City Council,
there have been a number of productive meetings to determine the
most effective manner to educate
our children in their neighborhood
schools while dealing with the economic
and
administrative
constraints facing the School District;
and
Whereas, a vital school is necessary in order for a neighborhood to
retain its vitality; and
Whereas, residents of Ward 16
with children attending William
Cullen Bryant Elementary School
located on Oak Park Avenue are
hopeful that the Cleveland Board of
Education will act fairly and reasonably in dealing with the sensitive issue of school closures; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public safety, welfare and
health; now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland urges the Cleveland Board of Education to continue
its reevaluation of proposed school
closures to prevent the closure of
William Cullen Bryant Elementary

The City Record
School located on Oak Park Avenue
in Ward 16.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 955-02.
By Councilman Pierce Scott.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 86371 East 93rd Street and repealing
Resolution No. 1620-01, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 863-71 East 93rd Street by
Resolution No. 1620-01 adopted by
Council on August 15, 2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and hereby consents to said
renewal pursuant to the Cooperation
Agreement by and through Sabra
Pierce Scott and Ibrahim Najjar,
President of Samia, Inc., DBA Convenience Deli, 863-71 East 93rd
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permit
No. 7702571, and executed by Susan
M. Bungard, Assistant Director of
Law; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 863-71
East 93rd Street be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1620-01, containing said objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 956-02.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a New C1
Liquor Permit to 15638 Holmes
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
issuance of a New C1 Liquor Permit

1021

35
to Tamara Tait, DBA R & T Resale
and Variety, 15638 Holmes Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 8780685.
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code.
Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a New C1 Liquor Permit
to Tamara Tait, DBA R & T Resale
and Variety, 15638 Holmes Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 8780685, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

The City Record

36
Res. No. 957-02.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 10808 Dove Avenue and
repealing
Resolution
No.
565-02,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 10808
Dove Avenue by Resolution No. 56502 adopted by Council on March 25,
2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1.
That objection to the
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 10808
Dove Avenue be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 565-02, containing said objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 2021-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
issue credits against rent to Host
International, under its Lease By
Way of Concession, City Contract
No. 33958, for certain improvements
approved by the Director.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance,
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 8, delete “shall
not exceed” and insert “in the
amount of”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 2163-01.
By Councilmen Gordon, Lewis and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Sections 241.01 to 241.40 and 241.99
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended and
enacted by various ordinances, relating to food shops and food handlers;
and to supplement said codified
ordinances by enacting new Sections
241.01 to 241.35 and 241.99 thereof,
relating to food shops; and to repeal
Sections 245.01 to 245.12 relating to
frozen desserts.

Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health, Legislation, Finance, when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at Section 241.05(f),
lines 2 and 3, strike “Two Hundred
Sixty-Three Dollars ($263.00)” and
insert in lieu thereof “Two Hundred
Sixty-Three Dollars and Forty-Four
Cents ($263.44)”.
2.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
241.05(g), line 2, strike “TwentyNine Dollars ($29.00)” and insert in
lieu thereof “Twenty-Nine Dollars
and Ten Cents ($29.10)”.
3.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
241.05(h), line 3, strike “per day”
and insert in lieu thereof “per fiveday event”.
4.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
241.05(n), line 2, after “required by
this section” insert “or fifty dollars
($50.00), whichever is less”.
5. In Section 1, strike Section
241.18 in its entirety and insert in
lieu thereof “Section 241.18. Reserved”.
6. In Section 1, at division (a)(1)
of Section 241.35, at “Level II” strike
“216.00" and insert in lieu thereof
“176.00”; at division (a)(3) of the
same section at “Level II” strike
“108.00” and insert in lieu thereof
“88.00”; at division (a)(4) of the
same section at “Level I” strike
“109.00” and insert in lieu thereof
“109.50”; and at division (a)(4) of
the same section at “Level III”
strike “444.00” and insert in lieu
thereof “444.50”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 278-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1013-01, passed July 18, 2001; to
supplement
said
ordinance
by
adding new Sections 2 and 3; and to
renumber existing Sections 2 and 3
to new Sections 4 and 5, relating to
wetland and stream mitigation programs for the Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation,
City
Planning,
Finance, when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at the amended
title, line 5, after “programs,” insert
“including
but
not
limited
to
stormwater improvements at Milligan Gardens,”.
2. In Section 1, at amended Section
1, line 5, after “programs” insert “,
including
but
not
limited
to
stormwater improvements at Milligan Gardens,”.
3. Section 3, at amended Section 2,
at the end, add the following new
sentence: “That the design for the
project to be implemented shall be
reviewed by the Design Review
Committee and the City Planning
Commission.”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 589-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of gate operating devices
and parts necessary to maintain,

1022

May 15, 2002
repair or replace existing gate operating devices, for the various divisions of the Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 590-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants to
provide professional services necessary to conduct annual audits of
select vendors and concessionaires
for Fiscal Year 2002 for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation, Finance,
when amended as follows:
1. Insert a new “Section 3” to read
as follows:
“Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control shall prepare a report
summarizing the findings of each
audit conducted pursuant to this
ordinance and provide a copy of the
report to the Aviation & Transportation Committee.”.
2. Renumber existing “Section 3”
to new “Section 4”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 591-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of work uniforms, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 592-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of parts necessary to repair
and maintain air handling units,
including but not limited to air filters, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 3, 4, 5
and 6 in their entirety and insert in
lieu thereof the following: “requirement contract of air filters and
related parts necessary to maintain
air handling units, for the”.
2. In Section 1, strike lines 5 and
6 in their entirety and insert in lieu
thereof the following: “necessary air
filters and related parts to maintain
air handling units, in the”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 594-02.
By Councilmen Reed and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair overhead doors, for
the Division of Fire, Department of
Public Safety, for a period not to
exceed two years.

May 15, 2002
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, lines 7 and 8; in Section 1, line 4 and in line 12, strike
“two years” and insert in lieu thereof “one year”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 637-02.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Gordon, Johnson, White and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development and Parks, Recreation
and Properties to employ one or
more professional parking lot operators to provide management and
operation of the City-owned parking
lots located on the northeast and
southeast corners of St. Clair Avenue and East 12th Street; and to
amend Section 133.331 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1828-95, passed December 18, 1995,
relating to parking fees for Community Development surface lots.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Parks, Recreation and Properties, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committees on Public
Parks, Property and Recreation,
Legislation; Passage recommended
by Committees on Community and
Economic
Development,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. Strike lines 4, 5, 6, 7 of the title
and insert in lieu thereof the following: “Recreation and Properties
to operate the City-owned parking”.
2. Strike Sections 1 and 2 in their
entirety and insert in lieu thereof
the following:
“Section 1. That the Directors of
Community Development and Parks,
Recreation and Properties are hereby authorized to operate the Cityowned parking lots located on the
northeast and southeast corners of
St. Clair Avenue and East 12th
Street and to employ the necessary
employees for the management and
operation of the lots referenced
herein.
Section 2. That the costs for such
City employees contemplated herein
shall be paid from the fees collected from the operation of the parking lots referenced above and such
fees collected are appropriated as
follows:
Personnel............ $197,392
Other.................... $ 40,720.”.
3. In Section 3, at amended Section
133.331, at division (b) at the end,
strike the period and insert the following: “; (c) Monthly rate (flat
rate-pay enter) up to $140.00 per
month.”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 676-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control
to enter into a requirement contract with SimplexGrinnell for the
maintenance, repair and upgrade of
current access control, fire and
security systems, including CCTV
equipment,
for the
Division of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Department of Port Control.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 4, after “written” insert “requirement”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 723-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into contract without competitive
bidding with Sybase, Inc. for the
purchase of software support and
maintenance of MITIS software, for
the Division of Taxation, Department of Finance, for a period of one
year, with two one-year options to
renew.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, at line 8, after
“(1)” and before “options” insert
“year”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 724-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into contract with Rytheon
Systems Company for professional
services necessary to conduct a site
preparation and installation report
and a site evaluation survey report
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport to support the installation of
a precision runway monitor at said
airport.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 4 and in Section 1, line 2, strike “Rytheon” and
insert in lieu thereof “Raytheon”.
2. In Section 1, lines 8 and 9,
strike “Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF
104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, and from”
and in line 10, strike “or federal
PFC authorization,”.
3. Insert a new “Section 2” to read
as follows:
“Section 2. That upon execution of
the contract authorized in Section 1
of this Ordinance, the Director of
Port Control shall notify the Chairman of the Aviation & Transportation Committee of the funds used to
certify the contract.”.
4. Renumber existing “Section 2”
to new “Section 3”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 730-02.
By Councilmen Lewis and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to enter into contract with Ceridian Benefits Services (formerly Applied Benefits
Research, Inc. dba COBRASERV)
for professional services necessary
to administer the City’s COBRA program for the Department of Personnel and Human Resources, for a
period of one year, with a one-year
option to renew.
Approved by Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Com-

1023

37
mittees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Finance.
Ord. No. 731-02.
By Councilmen Lewis and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to enter into contract with Integrated Consultant
Services, Ltd. to provide workers’
compensation actuarial and auditing
services for the Department of Personnel and Human Resources, for a
period of six months, for one sixmonth option to renew.
Approved by Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 8, insert in
between the words “term” and “and”
the following phrase: “upon the passage of an ordinance by City Council”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 853-02.
By Councilmen Lewis and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to accept allocations of grants from the State of
Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services, under the Workforce
Investment Act, Title I; to appropriate funds to provide for administration of the 2003 Workforce Investment Act Programs by the Department
of
Personnel
and
Human
Resources; and to enter into contracts with various entities necessary to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Finance.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 537-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 535.37 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A
passed September 22, 1924 relating
to penalty for using water without
permission.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1982-01.
By Councilmen Jones, Polensek,
Lewis, Cimperman, Jackson and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan and an
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant Agreement with Northeast
Ohio Neighborhood Health Services,
Inc. to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
building renovations, site improvements, machinery and equipment
purchases, and all other associated
costs to redevelop the properties
located at 8300 Hough Avenue and
12206 Superior Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

38
Ord. No. 2370-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Lewis
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections
3101.04,
3101.05,
3101.06,
3101.09, 3103.09, 3103.25, 3105.02, and
3105.26 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by various ordinances; to repeal
Sections
3101.07 and
3111.04;
to
rename Chapter 3111 of these codified ordinances; to repeal Sections
3121.01 and 3121.02, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 1116-A-85, passed February 10, 1986; and to supplement
said ordinances by enacting new
Sections 3121.01 and 3121.02 thereof,
all relating to the residential code
for
one-two
and
three
family
dwellings.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 123-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Polensek (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease By Way of Concession with AirSports Aviation Ltd.,
an Ohio Limited Liability Company,
for use as a retail sales space and
for general office and storage at
Burke Lakefront Airport.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 215-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Westbrook, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
execute easements granting to The
Cleveland
Electric
Illuminating
Company certain easement rights in
property located in Cleveland necessary to effect the Brookpark Road
relocation project and declaring said
easement rights no longer needed
for public use; proffering certain
representations for purposes of the
Trust Indenture from the City of
Cleveland to the Chase Manhattan
Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee and authorizing the Director of Port Control
to apply to the bond trustee for land
release.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 221-02.
By Councilmen Cintron, Gordon,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 4114 Franklin Boulevard to David A. Lechner and Diane
K. Lechner.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 348-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease By Way of Concession with American Airlines, Inc.
for operation of a cargo facility at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 349-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease By Way of Concession with American Airlines, Inc.
for operation of a ground service
equipment service facility at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 350-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease By Way of Concession with Global Ground Services, Inc., dba Servisair for operation of a cargo facility at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 367-02.
By Councilmen White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to authorize the Clerk of the Cleveland
Municipal Court to exercise an
option to renew Contract No. 57031
with Affiliated Computer Services,
Inc., formerly Lockheed-Martin IMS,
for the purchase of professional services for the processing of parking
infraction tickets and collection of
fines, for the Clerk of the Cleveland
Municipal Court.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 481-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook, Brady,
Sweeney, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating a portion of Western Avenue
between West 117th Street and West
Boulevard; authorizing the Director
of Public Service to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
such
improvement; authorizing said director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire for right-of-way purposes such real property as is necessary to make the public improvement.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 482-02.
By Councilmen Jackson, Reed,
Sweeney and Cimperman (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating a portion of Kinsman Road
between East 93rd Street and the
eastern corporation line; authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into contract for the making
of such improvement; authorizing
said director to employ one or more
professional consultants to design
the improvement; authorizing said
Director to enter into a Local Project Administration agreement with
the Ohio Department of Transportation regarding the public improvement; and authorizing the Director
of Public Service to apply for and
accept a
grant
from the Ohio
Department of Transportation to

1024

May 15, 2002
partially finance the public improvement.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 588-02.
By Councilmen Dolan, Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, Section 1 and Section 3 of
Ordinance No. 1000-2000, passed June
19, 2000, as amended by various ordinances,
relating
to
the
public
improvement of rehabilitating sewers on Westpark Road and Lydian
Avenue.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 593-02.
By Councilmen Britt and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of ground applications necessary to control adult mosquitoes,
for the Division of Environment,
Department of Public Health.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 600-02.
By Councilmen Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3 of Ordinance No. 709-01,
passed July 18, 2001, relating to a
contract with Vocational Guidance
Services for economic development
assistance to partially finance land
acquisition, purchase of machinery,
equipment and fixtures, the construction of a new building at East
55th Street and Longfellow Avenue,
and to make building improvements
at 2239 East 55th Street.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 680-02.
By Councilmen Britt and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of burials for indigent
dead, for the Division of Health,
Department of Public Health, for a
period not to exceed one year.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 722-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 343-02,
passed April 1, 2002, relating to a
requirement contract of ready mix
concrete, for the various divisions of
City government.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 758-02.
By Councilmen Coats and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 2367-01,
passed March 11, 2002, and to supplement said ordinance by adding
new Sections 4, 5 and 6; and to
renumber existing Section 4 to new
Section 7, relating to the public
improvement of constructing the
Nottingham Chemical Project, rehabilitating the discharge headers for
the Nottingham finished water pump
station
and
remediating
erosion
affecting the Nottingham Water
Plant in portions of the Euclid

May 15, 2002

The City Record

Creek Reservation, and authorizing
the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into contract for the making
of such improvement.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

THE CALENDAR

Ord. No. 759-02.
By Councilmen Coats and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to apply for and accept a grant from
the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency for the Water Security
Grant; and authorizing the said
Director to employ consultants to
provide professional services necessary to develop and perform a security assessment, planning and vulnerability assessment of publiclyowned drinking water facilities.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 768-02.
By Councilmen Britt and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
lease property known as 23600 Mercantile Road, from Mercantile Associates for a term not to exceed one
year, for the public purpose of leasing space to store goods necessary
for the operation of the Cleveland
House of Corrections.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 769-02.
By Councilmen Britt and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services Board of Cuyahoga County for
the 2002-03 Center Point/Student
Assistance/Drug
Prevention
Program; and to enter into contract for
the lease of facilities needed to
implement the program.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 230-02.
By Councilman Brady (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intention to vacate a portion of
Oliver Road S.W.
Read third time. Adopted. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
COMMITTEE ON MAYOR’S
APPOINTMENT
File No. 958-02.
The Chair appointed Council Member Roosevelt Coats, Chairman and
Council Members Nelson Cintron, Jr.,
Zachary Reed, Sabra Pierce Scott,
and Jay Westbrook to the Committee on Mayor’s Appointments.
MOTION
By Council Member Sweeney and
seconded by Council Member Lewis
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Members Patricia J. Britt, Michael D. Polensek,
Edward W. Rybka and Sabra Pierce
Scott be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
9:05 p.m. to meet on Monday, May 20,
2002 at 7:00 p.m. in Council Chambers.

Clerk of Council

The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 2021-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
issue credits against rent to Host
International, under its Lease By
Way of Concession, City Contract
No. 33958, for certain improvements
approved by the Director.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control (“Director”) is hereby
authorized to issue credits against
rent to Host International, Inc.
under its Lease By Way of Concession (“Lease”), City Contract No.
33958, for electrical upgrades on
Concourse B and in the main terminal and for replacement of windows
in the food court, all as approved by
the Director. The cost of said
improvements
shall
be
credited
against concession fees due the City
under the Lease, in the amount of
Three Hundred Seventy-Five Thousand Dollars ($375,000) and shall be
amortized over a one year period
beginning upon the effective date of
this ordinance.
Section 2. That the Director is further authorized to execute any documents necessary and appropriate to
issue such credits against rent.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 2163-01.
By Councilmen Gordon, Lewis and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Sections 241.01 to 241.40 and 241.99
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended and
enacted by various ordinances, relating to food shops and food handlers;
and to supplement said codified
ordinances by enacting new Sections
241.01 to 241.35 and 241.99 thereof,
relating to food shops; and to repeal
Sections 245.01 to 245.12 relating to
frozen desserts.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 241.01 to 241.02, as enacted by Ordinance No. 511-76, passed
June 14, 1976,
Sections
241.03,
241.04,
241.041,
241.05, 241.051 and 241.06, as amended
by
Ordinance
No.
2025-2000,
passed December 18, 2000,
Sections 241.07 and 241.08, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 511-76,
passed June 14, 1976,

1025

39
Sections 241.09, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
2025-2000,
passed
December 18, 2000,
Sections
241.10,
241.11,
241.12,
241.13, 241.14, 241.15, 241.16, 241.17,
241.18, and 241.19, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 511-76, passed June 14,
1976,
Section 241.20, 241.21, and 241.22,
as amended by Ordinance No. 20252000, passed December 18, 2000,
Section 241.23, as enacted by Ordinance No. 511-76, passed June 14,
1976,
Section 241.232, as amended by
Ordinance No. 430-93, passed June 14,
1993,
Section 241.24 and 241.25, as enacted by Ordinance No. 511-76, passed
June 14, 1976,
Section
241.26
and,
241.27,
as
amended by Ordinance No. 2025-2000,
passed December 18, 2000,
Section 241.28, 241.29, 241.30, 241.31,
241.32, 241.33, 241.34, 241.35, 241.36,
241.37, 241.38, 241.39 and 241.40, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 511-76,
passed June 14, 1976,
Section 241.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 430-93, passed June 14,
1993, and
Sections 245.01 to 245.12, as enacted
by
Ordinance
No.
2025-2000,
passed December 18, 2000,
are hereby repealed.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Sections 241.01 to 241.35 and
241.99 thereof, to read, respectively,
as follows:
CHAPTER 241
FOOD SHOPS
Section 241.01 Rules and Regulations
The Director of Public Health and
Welfare is hereby authorized to
adopt such written rules and regulations as may be necessary for the
proper interpretation and enforcement of this chapter. Such rules and
regulations upon adoption, shall be
published in the City Record for two
consecutive weeks and shall be in
effect on and after fifteen days from
the second publication therein. Such
rules and regulations shall have the
force and effect of this chapter and
continue in effect until revoked by
the Director or by ordinance of
Council.
Section 241.02 Enforcement and Inspection
The Commissioner of Environment, and any officer or employee
designated for that purpose by the
Commissioner are hereby charged
with the enforcement of this chapter. Any such person shall have the
right to enter and inspect any place
where the business of food, drugs,
cosmetics or devices is engaged in.
No person shall refuse or hinder
inspection, or fail to answer all reasonable questions relative to handling food, drugs, devices or cosmetics, or fail to furnish upon
request any records deemed necessary for the enforcement of this
chapter. The Commissioner may also
take or cause to be taken for examination, free of charge, any food,
drug, device or cosmetic, or component of such articles, for the detection of unwholesomeness, adulteration, misbranding or fraud, and he
may embargo, condemn, forbid the
sale of or cause to be destroyed any
food, drug, device or cosmetic, or
component thereof, which is unwholesome, adulterated, misbranded,
fraudulent or detrimental to health.

40
Section 241.03 Definitions
(a) As used in this chapter: The
definitions
contained
in
Ohio
Revised Code Chapter 3715 and
Chapter
3717
pertaining
to
the
administration and enforcement of
food safety programs are hereby
adopted and incorporated by the
City of Cleveland as if set forth
herein.
(b) “Food shop” applies to “retail
food establishment” and “food service operation.”
Section 241.04 Quality and Labeling Standards
(a) The definitions and standards
of identity, the standard of quality,
the standard of fill of container and
the labeling requirements for any
food sold or manufactured in the
City shall be those established for
interstate commerce by the United
States Food and Drug Administration and Ohio Department of Agriculture.
(b) Unless otherwise specified in
this chapter, the definitions and
standards of identity and the labeling requirements for meat, meat byproducts and meat food products
sold or manufactured in the City
shall be those of the Ohio Department of Agriculture.
Section 241.05 Food Shop Licenses
and Fees; Food Vehicle Permit
(a) No food shop shall be operated without the person, firm, association or corporation conducting such
business first applying for and
obtaining an annual license issued
by the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses. No business vehicle
used regularly for the transportation, delivery, vending or peddling
of food except a commercial carrier
transporting food incidental to other
deliveries, shall transport, deliver,
vend or peddle food in the City without the owner obtaining an annual
food vehicle permit for such vehicle.
(b) Ohio Revised Code Chapter
3715 and Chapter 3717, pertaining to
the licensing administration and
enforcement of food safety programs by the local licensing authority is hereby adopted and incorporated by the City of Cleveland as if
set forth herein.
(c) For a food vehicle permit the
annual fee shall be ten dollars
($10.00).
(d) Food vehicle permits shall
expire not later than the last day of
February of the next ensuing year
after issuance, and they shall not be
transferable except in accordance
with Section 3717.46 of the Revised
Code.
(e) The holder of a food service
operation license as defined by state
law shall not be required to obtain
a retail food establishment license
except when the activities of a
retail food establishment and a food
service operation are carried on
within the same facility by the same
person or entity, then the determination of what license applies shall
be made according to the primary
business of the person or entity as
determined by the licensor, the City
of Cleveland Director of Public
Health
as
described
in
Section
3717.44 of the Revised Code.
(f) For a mobile food service operation or mobile retail food establishment, the annual fee shall be
Two Hundred Sixty-Three Dollars
and Forty-Four Cents ($263.44).
(g) For a vending food service
operation, the annual fee shall be
Twenty-Nine Dollars and Ten Cents
($29.10).

The City Record
(h) For a temporary food service
operation and temporary retail food
establishments, the fee shall be
Twenty Dollars ($20.00) per five-day
event.
(i) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses may also collect
fees for collection and bacteriological examination of samples taken
from a food shop in an amount
equal to the cost of such collection
and examination as determined by
the Commissioner of Environment.
(j) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses may also collect
fees for plan reviews of food shops
of an amount equal to thirty percent
(30%) of the food shop license fee
for said shops, except for plans pertaining to mobile or temporary food
service operations or vending locations.
(k) The Commissioner shall submit all applications for a food shop
license to the City of Cleveland
Director
of
Public
Health
for
approval or disapproval of such
application.
(l) The Commissioner is authorized to collect license fees for retail
food establishments and food service operations and deposit such
fees into a fund created pursuant to
Sections 3717.25 and Section 3717.45
of the Revised Code.
(m) For purposes of this Section,
noncommercial
organizations
are
defined as organizations such as
churches, or non-profit organizations
operated exclusively for charitable
purposes as defined in division
(B)(12) of Section 5739.02 of the
Revised Code, provided that displayed foods are not displayed for
more than seven (7) consecutive
days or more than fifty-two (52) separate days per year.
(n) For a food service operation,
a penalty of twenty five percent
(25%) of any license fee required by
this section or fifty dollars ($50.00),
whichever is less must be paid prior
to the issuance of the license if the
required license fee is not paid on
or before the date it is due.
(o) For a retail food establishment the penalty shall be as set
forth in ORC 3717.23.
Section 241.06 License or Permit
Disapproval;
Revocation;
Suspension; Appeals
(a) The Commissioner of Environment shall have the power to
order the disapproval of an application for a license or permit, or the
revocation of any license or permit
or the suspension of any license or
permit for a period of up to thirty
(30) days, if the applicant licensee
or permit holder does not comply
with all the sanitary laws of this
chapter or makes false statements
in connection with any license or
permit.
(b) The Commissioner of Environment may disapprove an application for license or permit, or suspend any license or permit for a
period of up to thirty (30) days, if
the applicant licensee or permit
holder is charged with the fraudulent issuance or use of food stamp
coupons in violation of federal, state
or local laws, including but not limited to 7 U.S.C. Section 2016, RC
2913.46 and 5101.54; or the fraudulent
issuance of use of “WIC” coupons in
violation of Section 625.27; or, violation or federal drug abuse or drug
paraphernalia
laws,
state
drug
abuse or drug paraphernalia laws
pursuant to RC Chapter 2925, et seq.,
or local drug abuse or drug para-

1026

May 15, 2002
phernalia laws pursuant to Codified
Ordinance Chapter 607, et seq. Any
suspension under this division (b)
of this section shall take effect only
after a hearing before the Commissioner of Environment.
(c) The Commissioner of Environment shall revoke any license or
permit if the applicant licensee or
permit holder is convicted of violating any one of the laws set forth in
division (b) of this section.
(d) Upon receipt of notice from
the Commissioner of Environment
that an application for a license or
permit has been disapproved, or that
a license or permit has been revoked
or suspended, the Commissioner of
Assessments
and
Licenses
shall
forthwith notify the applicant for
such license or permit of such disapproval, or revoke or suspend the
license or permit, as the case may
be.
(e) Upon notice of disapproval of
an application for a license or permit, or upon the revocation, or suspension of a license or permit, the
applicant, licensee or permit holder
may appeal such order as provided
in Sections 3717.29 and 3717.49 of the
Ohio Revised Code and in conformance with the rules of procedure
adopted thereunder. In such cases,
the Commissioner of Environment is
charged with presiding over the
hearing and is authorized to render
a decision denying, suspending or
revoking a license, or render a decision removing or continuing a suspension. All other appeals may be
made
to
the
Board
of
Zoning
appeals as established pursuant to
Charter Section 76-6. Appeals to the
Board of Zoning appeals shall be in
writing and delivered to the secretary of the Board within ten (10)
days from the making of the order
appealed from. The Board shall fix
the time of hearing such appeal and
shall sustain, modify or disapprove
such order in which the appeal has
been perfected.
(f) If a food shop license or permit has been revoked due to a violation of any one of the laws set
forth in division (b) of this section,
then such food shop may not reapply for a license or permit to operate such business at the same location for a period of six (6) months
after the date of the revocation.
Section 241.07 Display of License
and Permit
Every license issued according to
this chapter shall be displayed in a
conspicuous place upon the wall and
close to the entrance of the premises where such business is conducted. Food vehicles shall have displayed the name and address of the
business on the side on such vehicle in letters at least two inches
high and shall have displayed in
conformity with Section 3717.23 of
the Ohio Revised Code on such vehicle a food vehicle permit issued by
the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses.
Section 241.08 Food Shop Sanitation
Every food shop and all parts
thereof
and
appurtenant
thereto,
shall be kept clean and sanitary at
all times and free from any accumulation of filth and waste material.
Section
241.09
Food
Handling
Premises to be Free of Insects and
Rodents
All buildings and portions of
buildings in which food is prepared,

May 15, 2002
stored or served shall be of rat-proof
construction and insect and rodent
free. When flies are prevalent, all
openings to the outer air shall be
effectively screened and doors shall
be self-closing unless other effective
means are provided to prevent their
entrance.
Section 241.10 Animals Prohibited
No live animals shall be brought
into, or kept in any room in which
food is prepared, processed, stored
or served except that guide dogs
accompanying their blind masters
may not be prohibited.
Section
241.11
Walls,
Ceilings,
Floors; Light and Ventilation
The walls and ceilings of food
shops shall be of smooth construction and easily cleanable material
and shall be kept clean, in good
repair and well-painted. Floors shall
be
of
impervious
material
and
smooth construction and shall be
kept clean. Rooms where food is
handled shall be well-ventilated and
food preparation and utensil washing areas shall be adequately lighted and sufficient in size for their
purpose.
Section 241.12 Water Supply
Every food shop shall have running hot and cold water, abundant
in supply and under adequate pressure supplied to conveniently located sinks, and if necessary, other
devices for the processing of food
and washing of equipment. The
water shall be of safe, sanitary
quality.
Section 241.13 Sanitary Facilities
(a) Every food shop shall be provided with adequate toilet facilities.
Such facilities shall be clean, in
good repair and properly ventilated.
All toilet room doors shall be tight
fitting and self-closing and no toilet
room shall open directly into any
room where food is prepared or
served. Conveniently located handwashing facilities shall be provided
for all toilet rooms, including wash
bowl supplied with running hot and
cold water, soap and sanitary towers or other approved drying facilities. Such hand-washing facilities
shall not be used for the washing of
food or food equipment. No employee shall resume work after using
the toilet room without washing his
hands.
When
deemed
necessary,
auxiliary
hand-washing
facilities
shall be provided in the food preparation area.
(b) No clothing shall be kept in
an objectionable manner in any food
shop and when deemed necessary,
suitable dressing rooms shall be provided for employees.
Section
241.14
Equipment
and
Utensils
All equipment in food shops shall
be designed, constructed and so
placed as to be easily cleanable, and
shall be in good repair and kept
clean. No utensils shall be made
wholly or in part of lead, cadmium
or other substances which food may
affect
to
form
dangerous
or
unwholesome substances. Utensils
shall be stored and handled in a
manner to prevent contamination.
Drying cloths, table cloths and napkins shall be clean and used only
for their intended purposes.
Section 241.15 Wastes
All food shop wastes, whether
liquor or solid, combustible or non-

The City Record
combustible, whether inside or outside the shop, shall be kept in such
a manner as not to become a nuisance. All stored garbage and rubbish shall be kept in suitable, tightly covered containers.
Section 241.16 Living and Sleeping
Quarters
No building or portion of a building where food is prepared for sale
shall be used for living purposes
unless the portion of the building so
used is separated from the food
shop. There shall be no direct opening between rooms where food is
stored, prepared or served to the
public, and rooms used for living
purposes.
Section 241.17 Offensive Substances
and Odors
In any room where food is processed, no barbering, shoe repairing,
laundering or other operation where
offensive substances or odors may
be set free, shall be allowed.
Section 241.18. Reserved.
Section 241.19 Transportation
No
food
shall
be
transported
unless it is so covered that it is protected from dust, dirt, insects and
other
contaminating
substances.
Every
vehicle
transporting
food
shall be kept in a clean, sanitary
condition.
Section 241.20 Display
No food shall be displayed in,
upon or over any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place in the
City, except in districts designated
by the City as market districts. Produce or other foodstuffs displayed
outside on the food shop’s property
shall be displayed so as to be protected from contamination.
Section 241.21 Licensing Outdoor
Restaurants: Procedure and Fee
(a) To provide for issuance of
annual licenses by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses and
to direct the Director of Public
Health to develop rules for such
operations not inconsistent with
state statutes and regulations, application shall be accepted by the Commissioner
of
Assessments
and
Licenses
from
restaurants,
the
approval of which will allow them
to serve food and beverages outdoors.
(b) Each license application shall
have included with it a sketch of
the premises showing what outdoor
areas are proposed to be used for
the serving of food and beverages.
(c) Before any food shop may
expand its operation to an outdoor
area, it must submit a new application and new sketch of the premises to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses and obtain
approval as required herein.
(d) This section shall in no way
supercede any applicable portions of
City or state health regulations.
(e) On the approval of the application by the Commissioner of Environment,
the
Commissioner
of
Assessments
and
Licenses
shall
issue the food shop license. Denial
of a food shop license may be
appealed to the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
(f) After issuance of the food
shop license, each applicant must
submit an application for a permit
pursuant to Chapter 513 of these
codified ordinances.

1027

41
Section 241.22 Adulterated or Misbranded Food
No person, firm or corporation
shall sell, keep for sale, store or
serve any food or drink that is
unclean, unwholesome, spoiled, unfit
for human consumption, adulterated,
misbranded, not labeled if required
to be labeled or which does not conform to standard. All milk, milk
products,
frozen
desserts,
meat,
meat by-products and meat food
products, shellfish and ice shall be
from approved, inspected sources.
Section 241.23 Cleanliness of Food
Handlers
All food handlers shall be clean in
their habits and shall wear clean
garments. When deemed necessary,
food handlers shall wear caps, nets
or other hair coverings when preparing or serving food. Food handlers shall not expectorate or use
tobacco in any form in rooms where
food is prepared or served.
Section 241.24 Adulterated or Misbranded Drugs or Cosmetics
No person, firm or corporation
shall sell or offer for sale in the
City any drug, cosmetic or device
that is adulterated, misbranded or
fraudulent.
Section 241.25 Vending Machines
(a) No person shall employ a coinoperated or other mechanical dispensing device for vending of food
or drink unless the machine is constructed of suitable material and
designed for easy, thorough cleaning and sanitizing and is maintained in clean, sanitary surroundings. Each machine shall be filled
with wholesome ingredients, handled under sanitary conditions and
transported in a clean, sanitary
manner.
(b) Food in vending machines
shall not be admixed with any trinket, prize or other similar novelty
made of plastic, metal or other nonnutritive substances.
(c) Whenever requested by the
official charged with the enforcement of this chapter, the owner or
operator of such mechanical devices
for dispensing food and drink, or his
representatives, shall assist in making inspection of the interior of such
machines at all reasonable hours.
Section 241.26 Sources of Poultry
and Game
No poultry or game shall be
brought into the City for sale except
in conformity with all applicable
Federal and State and City laws and
regulations including Chapters 3715
and 3717 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 241.27 Sale of Poultry by
Weight
Poultry shall be sold by weight
only.
Section
241.28
Inspections
Required
(a) No person, firm or corporation
shall sell, keep for sale, store or
deliver within the City any meat,
meat by-product or meat food product that is adulterated, mislabeled
or not labeled if required to be
labeled.
(b) No uninspected meat, meat byproduct or meat food product shall
be sold, kept for sale, stored or
delivered within the City, and no
meat, meat by-product or meat food
product shall be brought into the
City from any plant or place not
having Federal inspection, State

The City Record

42
inspection or inspection by any
other acceptable official agency.
Section 241.29 Standards for Hamburg or Hamburger
(a) As used in this chapter, “hamburg” or “hamburger” means comminuted fresh or fresh frozen skeletal beef, with or without the addition of beef fat as such, containing
mot more than a total of thirty percent beef fat or suet, as determined
by chemical analysis.
(b) No person, firm, partnership,
corporation or association shall display, sell or offer for sale any hamburg or hamburger containing excessive fat, added chemicals, preservatives, coloring matter or any other
matter than beef, beef fat or suet,
except that salt, pepper and other
seasoning may be added in condimental proportions.
Section
241.30
Standards
for
Ground Beef, Ground Steak, Ground
Chuck,
Chopped
Beef,
Chopped
Steak, etc.
(a) As used in this chapter,
“ground
beef,”
“ground
meat,”
“ground
steak,”
“ground
chuck,”
“chopped beef,” “chopped steak,” and
similar comminuted beef products
means comminuted fresh or fresh
frozen skeletal beef, without the
addition of beef fat as such, containing not more than a total of thirty percent beef fat, or suet as determined by chemical analysis.
(b) No person, firm, partnership,
corporation or association shall display, sell or offer for sale any
ground beef, ground meat, ground
steak, ground chuck, chopped beef,
chopped steak and similar comminuted beef products containing excessive fat, added chemicals, preservatives, coloring matter or any other
matter except that salt, pepper and
other seasoning may be added in
condimental proportions.
Section 241.31 Standards for Pork
Sausage and Breakfast Sausage
(a) As used in this chapter, “pork
sausage” means comminuted fresh
or smoked pork with fat content not
more than fifty percent either in
casing or bulk, with or without the
addition of seasoning. “Breakfast
sausage” shall be composed of fresh
or cured meat and fresh fat, with a
fat content not more than fifty percent. It may be derived from trimmings or beef, pork, veal, lamb or
mutton. It may be seasoned and
smoked.
(b) No person, firm, partnership,
corporation or association shall display, sell or offer for sale any pork
sausage or breakfast sausage which
contains excessive fat or which contains preservative.
(c) When comminuted meat contains any pork, it shall be labeled
as containing pork.
Section 241.32 Enforcement Requiring Extra Services; Costs
Whenever the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter requires
extraordinary services, the person,
firm or corporation requesting such
extraordinary services shall pay the
cost of such services as determined
by the Department of Public Health
and Welfare.
Section 241.33 Perishable Food
Labeling
(a) “Person” means any individual, partnership, partner, firm, com-

May 15, 2002

pany, corporation, association or any
other legal entity, or their legal representatives, assigns, employees or
successors.
(b) “Perishable Food” means any
food which has not been frozen,
canned or dried, and which has not
been prepared by the seller of the
food for human consumption without further preparation or cooking.
(c) No person shall sell or offer
for sale to another person in the
City of Cleveland, for human consumption, perishable food:
(1) if the perishable food is
marked by a sell-by-date, later than
six months after said sell-by-date; or
(2) if the perishable food is
marked by a sale expiration date,
later than said sale expiration date.
(d) No person shall sell or offer
for sale to another person in the
City of Cleveland, for human consumption, perishable foods which at
one time were marked with a sellby-date or sale expiration date, if
such sell-by-date or sale expiration
date has been falsified, removed,
concealed,
altered,
defaced
or
erased.
(e) No person shall sell or offer
for sale to another person in the
City of Cleveland, for human consumption, perishable food which had
at one time been frozen unless a
sign has been conspicuously posted
which states that the food had been
previously frozen and unless the
words
“PREVIOUSLY
FROZEN”
appear on all labels and signs on
which the price for the food is listed in lettering no less than one half
the size of the price. As used in this
division, “conspicuously posted sign”
means a sign no less than two feet
by two feet in size and visible to
customers.
(f) Nothing in this section shall
limit or alter the prohibitions and
requirements regarding adulterated
or misbranded food.
Section 241.34 Safe Food Sanitation Standards
The definitions and standards for
safe sanitation in retail food establishments and food service operations shall be any established as the
Ohio Uniform Food Safety Code, promulgated by The Ohio Director of
Agriculture and Ohio Public Health
Council pursuant to Section 3717.05
of the Revised Code.
Section 241.35 Categories and Fees
(a) Each application to the Commissioner of Licenses and Assessments for a food service operation
license required pursuant to Section 3717.43 of the Revised Code, or
for a retail food establishment
license required pursuant to Section 3717.23 of the Revised Code
shall be accompanied by a combined license and inspection fee as
follows:
(1) Food Service Operations and
Retail Food Establishments less
than 25,000 square feet of floor
space:
Risk Level
Level
Level
Level
Level

Fee

I
II
III
IV

$ 140.00
176.00
398.00
450.00

(2) Food Service Operations and
Retail Food Establishments greater
than 25,000 square feet of floor
space:

1028

Risk Level
Level
Level
Level
Level

I
II
III
IV

Fee
$ 219.00
260.00
889.00
942.00

(3) Non-Commercial Food Service
Operations and Non-Commercial Retail Food Establishments less than
25,000 square feet of floor space:
Risk Level
Level
Level
Level
Level

I
II
III
IV

Fee
$ 70.00
88.00
199.00
225.00

(4) Non-Commercial Food Service
Operations
and
Non-Commercial
Retail Food Establishments greater
than 25,000 square feet of floor
space:
Risk Level
Level
Level
Level
Level

I
II
III
IV

Fee
$ 109.50
130.00
444.50
471.00

(b) The risk level categories
described herein shall have the
meaning established in any rules
promulgated pursuant to Chapters
3715 and 3717 of the Ohio Revised
Code.
Section 241.99 Penalty
Unless otherwise specified in this
chapter, whoever violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, or of any
ordinance amending or supplementing such provisions, shall be guilty
of a first degree misdemeanor and
fined no more than One thousand
Dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for
not more than six months, or both.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 278-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1013-01, passed July 18, 2001; to
supplement
said
ordinance
by
adding new Sections 2 and 3; and to
renumber existing Sections 2 and 3
to new Sections 4 and 5, relating to
wetland and stream mitigation programs for the Department of Port
Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1013-01,
passed July 18, 2001, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into agreements with public
authorities to pay or reimburse
directly related costs incurred by
such entities for the purpose of
implementing
the
wetland
and

May 15, 2002
stream mitigation programs, including but not limited to stormwater
improvements at Milligan Gardens,
for the Department of Port Control;
determining the method of making
the public improvement of constructing wetland and stream mitigation improvements if a public
authority does not do so; and authorizing the Director of Port Control
to enter into contract for the making of such improvement.
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into agreements with public
authorities necessary to pay or
reimburse
directly
related
costs
incurred by such entities for the
purpose of implementing the wetland and stream mitigation programs, including but not limited to
stormwater improvements at Milligan Gardens, as required by federal
or State statutes, regulations, permits, or orders in an amount not to
exceed
Eight
Million
Dollars
($8,000,000).
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 101301, passed July 18, 2001, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 101301, passed July 18, 2001, is hereby
supplemented by enacting new Sections 2 and 3 to read, respectively,
as follows:
Section 2. That provided a public
authority will not be implementing
the wetland and stream mitigation
program, pursuant to Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
it is hereby determined to make the
public improvement of constructing
wetland
and
stream
mitigation
improvements, for the Department
of Port Control, by contract duly let
to the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement. That the
design for the project to be implemented shall be reviewed by the
Design Review Committee and the
City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That provided a public
authority will not be implementing
the wetland and stream mitigation
program, the Director of Port Control is hereby authorized to enter
into contract for the making of the
above public improvement responsible bidder after competitive bidding
for a gross price. Upon request of
said Director the contractor shall
furnish a correct schedule of unit
prices, including profit and overhead, for all items constituting units
of said improvement.
Section 4. That existing Sections 2
and 3 of Ordinance No. 1013-01,
passed July 18, 2001, are hereby
renumbered, respectively, to new
Sections 4 and 5.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 589-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of gate operating devices and
parts necessary to maintain, repair
or replace existing gate operating
devices, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control.

The City Record
Ord. No. 590-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants to
provide professional services necessary to conduct annual audits of
select vendors and concessionaires
for Fiscal Year 2002 for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
employ by contract one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants to provide professional services necessary to conduct annual
audits of select vendors and concessionaires for Fiscal Year 2002 for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control for the purpose
of compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Port Control, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
contract herein authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001,
Request No. 113523.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control shall prepare a report
summarizing the findings of each
audit conducted pursuant to this
ordinance and provide a copy of the
report to the Aviation & Transportation Committee.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 591-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of work uniforms, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control.
Ord. No. 592-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of air filters and related
parts necessary to maintain air handling units, for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1029

43
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary air filters
and related parts to maintain air
handling units, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 109741)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 594-02.
By Councilmen Reed and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair overhead doors, for
the Division of Fire, Department of
Public Safety, for a period not to
exceed one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of labor
and materials necessary to repair
overhead doors, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Fire, Department of Public
Safety. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than one year may be taken
if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies

44
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 116265)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record
(c) Monthly rate (flat rate-pay
enter) up to $140.00 per month.
Section 4. That Section 133.331 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1828-95, passed December 18, 1995, is hereby repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

Ord. No. 637-02.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Gordon, Johnson, White and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development and Parks, Recreation
and Properties to operate the Cityowned parking lots located on the
northeast and southeast corners of St.
Clair Avenue and East 12th Street;
and to amend Section 133.331 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1828-95, passed December 18, 1995,
relating to parking fees for Community Development surface lots.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Community Development and Parks,
Recreation and Properties are hereby authorized to operate the Cityowned parking lots located on the
northeast and southeast corners of
St. Clair Avenue and East 12th
Street and to employ the necessary
employees for the management and
operation of the lots referenced
herein.
Section 2. That the costs for such
City employees contemplated herein
shall be paid from the fees collected from the operation of the parking lots referenced above and such
fees collected are appropriated as
follows:
Personnel............ $197,392
Other.................... $ 40,720.
Section 3. That Section 133.331 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1828-95, passed December 18, 1995, is hereby amended
to read as follows:

Ord. No. 676-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a requirement contract
with SimplexGrinnell for the maintenance, repair and upgrade of current access control, fire and security systems, including CCTV equipment, for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
SimplexGrinnell. Therefore, the Director of Port Control is hereby authorized to make a written requirement
contract with said SimplexGrinnell,
for the maintenance, repair and upgrade of current access control, fire
and
security
systems,
including
CCTV equipment, for the Division of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Department of Port Control.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 113516)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

Section 133.331 Parking Fees for
Community Development and Parks,
Recreation and Properties Surface
Lots
The
Commissioner
of
Parking
Facilities shall collect fees and
charges at surface parking lots
under the control of the Departments of Community Development
and Parks, Recreation and Properties in accordance with the following schedule:
(a)
Daily
rate
(flat
rate-pay
enter) up to $10.00;
(b) Special rate (flat rate-pay
enter) up to $15.00;

Ord. No. 723-02.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into contract without competitive
bidding with Sybase, Inc. for the
purchase of software support and
maintenance of MITIS software, for
the Division of Taxation, Department of Finance, for a period of one
year, with two one-year options to
renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

1030

May 15, 2002
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within services are
non-competitive
and
cannot
be
secured from any source other than
Sybase, Inc. Therefore, the Director
of Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written contract with said
Sybase upon the basis of their proposal dated July 27, 2001, for software support and maintenance of
MITIS software, for a one year term
commencing upon execution of a
contract, with two (1) year options
exercisable
by
the
Director
of
Finance, to renew for an additional
one-year term, and cancelable upon
thirty days written notice by said
Director, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for a gross price for the Division of Taxation, Department of
Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 81 SF 001, Request No. 106654.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 724-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into contract with Raytheon
Systems Company for professional
services necessary to conduct a site
preparation and installation report
and a site evaluation survey report
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport to support the installation of
a precision runway monitor at said
airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into contract with Raytheon
Systems Company for professional
services necessary to conduct a site
preparation and installation report
and a site evaluation survey report
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport to support the installation of
a precision runway monitor at said
airport on the basis of their proposal dated April 19, 2002, in the total
sum of $500,000.00, payable from any
funds or subfunds to which are credited any federal grants for the
above project and the proceeds from
the sale of any airport revenue
bonds issued for a purpose which
includes the above project, Request
No. 118194.
Section 2. That upon execution of
the contract authorized in Section 1
of this Ordinance, the Director of
Port Control shall notify the Chairman of the Aviation & Transportation Committee of the funds used to
certify the contract.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

May 15, 2002
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 730-02.
By Councilmen Lewis and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to enter into contract with Ceridian Benefits Services (formerly Applied Benefits
Research, Inc. dba COBRASERV)
for professional services necessary
to administer the City’s COBRA program for the Department of Personnel and Human Resources, for a
period of one year, with a one-year
option to renew.
Ord. No. 731-02.
By Councilmen Lewis and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to enter into contract with Integrated Consultant
Services, Ltd. to provide workers’
compensation actuarial and auditing
services for the Department of Personnel and Human Resources, for a
period of six months, for one sixmonth option to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
hereby authorized to enter into contract with Integrated Consulting
Services, Ltd. to provide workers’
compensation actuarial and auditing
services on the basis of their proposal dated November 21, 2001, for a
six-month term commencing upon
execution of a contract, with one (1)
option exercisable by the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources, to
renew for an additional six-month
term, upon the passage of an ordinance by City Council and cancelable upon thirty days written notice
by said Director, payable from Fund
No. 01-040201-632000, Request No.
107505, for the Department of Personnel and Human Resources.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 853-02.
By Councilmen Lewis and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to accept allocations of grants from the State of
Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services, under the Workforce
Investment Act, Title I; to appropriate funds to provide for administration of the 2003 Workforce Investment Act Programs by the Department
of
Personnel
and
Human
Resources; and to enter into contracts with various entities necessary to implement the program.

The City Record
BOARD OF CONTROL
May 8, 2002
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, May 8, 2002, at
10:30 a.m. with Mayor Campbell presiding.
Present: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Absent: None.
Others: Debra Midgett, Purchases
and Supplies.
Henry Guzman, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 271-02.
By Director Baker.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Domestic Linen Supply Co., Inc.
for an estimated quantity of towel
and linen service, all items, for the
various divisions of City government, for the period of one (1) year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on April
3, 2002, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 340-02, passed April 1,
2002, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
Fifty Nine Thousand Nine Hundred
Ninety Five and 92/100 Dollars
($59,995.92), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Finance is hereby requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition Nos. 123103 and 122031
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100
Dollars ($1,500.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract but not exceed
$70,000.00.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 272-02.
By Director Baker and Director
Ricchiuto.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on December 5, 2001, for a
digital document system, for the
Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 11982000, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on August 7, 2000,
and Ordinance No. 1263-01, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
on June 19, 2001, be and the same
are hereby rejected.

1031

45
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 273-02.
By Acting Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that pursuant to Board of Control Resolution
No. 714-01, adopted October 3, 2001,
pursuant to Ordinance No. 1130-01,
passed July 18, 2001, approving
TestAmerica, Inc., City, Contract No.
58555, for professional environmental services for the purpose of providing professional environmental
services including but not limited to,
analytical testing of impacted areas
to determine the ultimate disposition of the soil for projects associated with the Expansion Program
for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, the employment of the following subcontractor
for the above-mentioned professional services project is hereby approved.
Subcontractor

Description

EEG – 3W Company
Laboratory
Services
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 274-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved, by Board of Control of
the City of Cleveland that the bid of
Kenmore Construction Co., Inc. for
an estimated quantity of 95,000 tons
of asphalt concrete, for the Division
of Streets, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1) year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on April
10, 2002, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 351-02, passed April 1,
2002, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
Two Million Twenty Two Thousand
Seven Hundred Fifty and 00/100 Dollars ($2,022,750.00), is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Service is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 121302
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One Million Five Hundred Thousand and
00/100 Dollars ($1,500,000).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.

The City Record

46
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractors by Kenmore Construction Company Inc., for the hauling of aggregate, if needed, is hereby approved:
Granger Trucking
MBE — $303,412.50 — 15%
Interstate Safety & Service
FBE — $101,137.50 — 5%
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 275-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Whereas, by Resolution No. 260-02,
adopted May 1, 2002 pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 2082-01,
passed by Council of the City of
Cleveland on December 10, 2001 this
Board of Control approved the bid
of Rocal, Inc. as lowest and best for
the purchase of Traffic Sign Posts;
and
Whereas, in said Resolution No.
260-02, certain items to be approved
were incorrectly numbered as 4, 5, 6,
and 7; now, therefore;
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 26002, adopted May 1, 2002, affirming
and approving the bid of Rocal, Inc.
as lowest and best for the purchase
of various traffic sign post items,
for the Division of Traffic Engineering, Department of Public Service, is hereby amended by changing item numbers 4, 5, 6 & 7 to item
numbers 4a, 4b, 4c, and 4d.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 260-02 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain in full force
and effect.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 276-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Envirocom Construction Company, Inc., for the public improvements
of various district service centers,
base bid, for the Department of Public Service, received on October 4,
2001, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 2204-2000, passed February 12, 2001, and Ordinance No.
410-02, passed on April 1, 2002, for a
gross price for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of Five Hundred Eighty Eight Thousand and
no/100 Dollars ($588,000.00), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest responsible bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
authorized to enter into contract for
said improvement with said bidder.

May 15, 2002

Be it further resolved, by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following
subcontractors by Envirocom Construction Company, Inc., is hereby
approved:
A & L Sewer Company
MBE — $21,000
RCE Inc.
MBE — $57,000
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 277-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that all bids received on August 22,
2001, for Cleveland Memorial Gardens Roadway Expansion for the
Department of Parks, Recreation &
Properties, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1404-2000, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on January 8, 2001, be and the
some are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 278-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of F. Buddie Contracting, LTD. for the public improvement of Archmere Park Tennis
Court Improvements, for Base Bid
Items #1 - #17 including the 5% contingency
for
the
Division
of
Research, Planning & Development,
Department of Parks, Recreation &
Properties, received on March 27,
2002, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1605-98, passed on
October 19, 1998, upon a unit basis
for the improvement in the aggregate amount of Seventy Six Thousand, Six Hundred Thirty Seven and
40/100 Dollars ($76,637.40), is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director
of Department of Parks, Recreation
& Properties is hereby authorized to
enter into contract for said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by F.
Buddie Contracting, Ltd. for the
aforementioned public improvement
hereby is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS
RESPONSIBILITY
United Ready Mix
(MBE)
Able Contracting Group
(FBE)
Barrow Sign
(FBE)

Concrete
Fence
Signage

1032

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 279-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Innovative Foods, Inc., for
the operation of concession stands
at Brookside and Gordon Parks for
the Division of Park Maintenance
and
Properties,
Department
of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
for a period of three (3) years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on October 24, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 224-01, passed
on May 21, 2001, for a concession fee
of the greater of $5,000.00 per year
or 5% of gross profits for Brookside
Park and the greater of $3,000.00 per
year or 5% of gross profits for Gordon Park, is hereby affirmed and
approved to be the highest and best
bid, and the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby
requested to enter into a concession
agreement for such services.
Be it further resolved, that the
concession
agreement
authorized
hereby shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain
such additional provisions as said
Director deems necessary to protect
and benefit public interest.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 280-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that all bids received on September
21, 2001 for Cultural Gardens Park
Station Site Improvements for the
Department of Parks, Recreation &
Properties, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1605-98, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on October 19, 1998, be and the
same are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 281-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of R. J. Platten Contracting Co. for the public improvement of Morganic Gardens Site
Improvements, for Base Bid Items
#1 - #43 including the 5% contingency for the Division of Research,
Planning & Development, Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties, received on April 10, 2002,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1605-98 and Ordinance No.
1728-2000, passed on October 19, 1998

The City Record

May 15, 2002
and April 9, 2001, respectively, upon
a unit basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of One Hundred Fifty Five Thousand, Four
Hundred Eighty and 01/100 Dollars
($155,480.01), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid; and the Director of Department
of Parks, Recreation & Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract for said improvement with said
bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by R.
J. Platten Contracting Co. for the
aforementioned public improvement
hereby is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS
RESPONSIBILITY
McTech Corporation
(MBE)
Ballast Fence
(FBE)
Barrow Sign
(FBE)

Concrete
Fence
Signage

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 282-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 118-29-101, 118-29102,
118-28-029
under
said
Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 413-02
passed May 6, 2002, authorized the
sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 413-02 passed May 6,
2002, by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 118-29-101, 118-29102, 118-28-029, as described in said
Ordinance in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

Resolution No. 283-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 118-22-042, 118-22051, 118-22-052, 118-23-052, 118-23-053,
118-23-054, 118-23-058, 118-23-065, 11823-066, 103-24-034, 103-24-035, 103-24037, 103-24-044, 103-25-024, 103-25-028,
103-25-029, 103-25-030 under said Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 414-02
passed May 6, 2002, authorized the
sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 414-02 passed May 6,
2002, by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 118-22-042, 118-22051, 118-22-052, 118-23-052, 118-23-053,
118-23-054, 118-23-058, 118-23-065, 11823-066, 103-24-034, 103-24-035, 103-24037, 103-24-044, 103-25-024, 103-25-028,
103-25-029, 103-25-030, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Acting
Director Horvath, Director Baker,
Acting Directors Ciaccia, Nielson,
Wasik, Carroll, Director Draper, Acting Director Glending, Directors
Hudecek, Romero, Warren, Acting
Director Fowler and Director Taylor.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.

1033

47
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ANNE BLOOMBERG,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
TUESDAY, MAY 28, 2002
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 02-79: 3884 Silsby Road
(Ward 21)
Michalyn and Lawrence Blasius,
owners, appeal to construct a 22' x
26' one-story gambrel garage to the
rear of an approximate 40' x 161'
tapered parcel located in a TwoFamily District on the west side of
Silsby Road at 3884 Silsby Road;
said construction being contrary to
the Enforcement and Penalty Requirements
of
Section
327.02(b)
where no building shall be erected,
altered or enlarged until a permit
for such erection, alteration or
enlargement has been issued by the
Commissioner of Building and contrary to the Residential District
Requirements, where the proposed
garage is 814 sq. ft. and the maximum allowed is 720 sq. ft. as stated
in Section 337.23(A) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-88: 6412-24 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 1) (Ward 12)
Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeals to
construct an approximate 18' x 36'
three-story, single family house and
an 18' x 20'-6" attached garage all
situated on an approximate 32.5' x
80' parcel located in a Local Retail
Business District on the west side of
East 65th Street at 6412 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 1); said construction
being contrary to the Area Requirements, where in a “B” Area District
the maximum floor area cannot
exceed one-half the lot area and
1,250 sq. ft. maximum gross floor
area is permitted and 1,565 sq. ft. is
proposed and a 32.5' wide lot is proposed and 40' is required and a 2,500
sq. ft. lot is proposed and a 4,800 sq.
ft. lot is required as stated in Section 355.04(b) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-89: 6412-24 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 2) (Ward 12)
Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeals to
construct an approximate 18' x 36'
three-story, single family house and
an 18' x 20'-6" garage all situated
on an approximate 32.5' x 80' parcel located in a Local Retail Business District on the west side of
East 65th Street at 6412 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 2); said construction
being contrary to the Off-Street
Parking and Loading Requirements
of Section 349.01(a), where access to
off-street parking must be provided
and contrary to the Area Requirements, where in a “B” Area District
the maximum floor area cannot
exceed one-half the lot area and
1,250 sq. ft. maximum gross floor
area is permitted and 1,565 sq. ft. is
proposed and a 32.5' wide lot is proposed and 40' is required and a 2,500
sq. ft. lot is proposed and a 4,800 sq.
ft. lot is required as stated in Section 355.04(b) of the Codified Ordinances.

48
Calendar No. 02-90: 6412-24 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 3) (Ward 12)
Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeals to
construct an approximate 18' x 36'
three-story, single family house and
an 18' x 20'-6" attached garage all
situated on an approximate 32.5' x
80' parcel located in a Local Retail
Business District on the west side of
East 65th Street at 6412 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 3); said construction
being contrary to the Off-Street
Parking and Loading Requirements
of Section 349.01(a), where access to
off-street parking must be provided
and contrary to the Area Requirements, where in a “B” Area District
the maximum floor area cannot
exceed one-half lot area and 1,250
sq. ft. maximum gross floor area is
permitted and 1,565 sq. ft. is proposed and a 32.5' wide lot is proposed and 40' is required and a 2,500
sq. ft. lot is proposed and 4,800 sq.
ft. is required as stated in Section
355.04(b) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-91: 6412-24 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 4) (Ward 12)
Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeals to
construct an approximate 18' x 36'
three-story, single family house and
an 18' x 20'-6" attached garage all
situated on an approximate 32.5' x
80' parcel located in a Local Retail
business District on the west side of
East 65th Street at 6412 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 4); said construction
being contrary to the Off-Street
Parking and Loading Requirements
of Section 349.01(a), where access to
off-street parking must be provided
and contrary to the Area Requirements, where in a “B” Area District
the maximum floor area cannot
exceed one half the lot area and
1,250 sq. ft. maximum gross floor
area is permitted and 1,565 sq. ft. is
proposed and a 32.5' wide lot is proposed and 40' is required and a 2,500
sq. ft. lot is proposed and a 4,800 sq.
ft. lot is required as stated in Section 355.04(b) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-92: 6412-24 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 5) (Ward 12)
Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Mathew Solomon, agent, appeals to
construct an approximate 18' x 36'
three-story, single family house and
an 18' x 20'-6" attached garage all
situated on an approximate 32.5' x
80' parcel located in a Local Retail
Business District on the west side of
East 65th Street at 6412 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 5); said construction
being contrary to the Off-Street
Parking and Loading Requirements
of Section 349.01(a), where access to
off-street parking must be provided
and contrary to the Area Requirements, where in a “B” Area District
the maximum floor area cannot
exceed one-half the lot area and
1,250 sq. ft. maximum gross floor
area is permitted and 1,565 sq. ft. is
proposed and a 32.5' wide lot is proposed and 40' is required and a 2,500
sq. ft. lot is proposed and 4,800 sq.
ft. is required as stated in Section
355.04(b) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-93: 6412-24 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 6) (Ward 12)
Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeals to
construct an approximate 18' x 36'
three-story, single family house and
an 18' x 20'-6" attached garage all
situated on an approximate 32.5' x
80' parcel located in a Local Retail
Business District on the west side of

The City Record
East 65th Street at 6412 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 6); said construction
being contrary to the Off-Street
Parking and Loading Requirements
of Section 349.01(a), where access to
off-street parking must be provided
and contrary to the Area Requirements, where in a “B” Area District
the maximum floor area cannot
exceed one-half the lot area and
1,250 sq. ft. maximum gross floor
area is permitted and 1,565 sq. ft. is
proposed and a 32.5' wide lot is proposed and 40' is required and a 2,500
sq. ft. lot is proposed and a 4,800 sq.
ft. is required as stated in Section
355.04 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-94: 6412-24 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 7) (Ward 12)
Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeals to
construct an approximate 18' x 36'
three-story, single family house and
an 18' x 20'-6" attached garage all
situated on an approximate 32.5' x
80' parcel located in a Local Retail
Business District on the west side of
East 65th Street at 6412 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 7); said construction
being contrary to the Off-Street
Parking and Loading Requirements
of Section 349.01(a), where access to
off-street parking must be provided
and contrary to the Area Requirements, where in a “B” Area District
the maximum floor area cannot
exceed one-half of the lot area and
1,250 sq. ft. maximum gross floor
area is permitted and 1,565 sq. ft. is
proposed and a 32.5' wide lot is proposed and 40' is required and a 2,500
sq. ft. lot is proposed and a 4,800 sq.
ft. lot is required as stated in Section 355.04(b) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-95: 6412-24 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 8) (Ward 12)
Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent, appeals to
construct an approximate 18' x 36'
three-story, single family house and
an 18' x 20'-6" attached garage all
situated on an approximate 32.5' x
80' parcel located in a Local Retail
Business District on the west side of
East 65th Street at 6412 Gertrude
Avenue (Lot 8); said construction
being contrary to the Off-Street
Parking and Loading Requirements
of Section 349.01(a), where access to
off-street parking must be provided
and contrary to the Area Requirements, where in a “B” Area District
the maximum floor area cannot
exceed one-half of the lot area and
1,250 sq. ft. maximum gross floor
area is permitted and 1,565 sq. ft. is
proposed and a 32.5' wide lot is proposed and 40' is required and a 2,500
sq. ft. lot is proposed and a 4,800 sq.
ft. lot is required as stated in Section 355.04(b) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-96: 13437-39 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 20)
L. Friedman, owner, and Robert
and Maryland Gonzalez, tenants,
appeal to establish the use of an
existing 58' x 120' one-story, masonry building as a day care facility all
situated on an approximate 60' x
152' irregular shaped parcel located
in a General Retail Business District on the south side of Lorain
Avenue at 13437-39 Lorain Avenue;
said change of use being contrary
to the Business District Requirements, where as regulated by the
One-Family
District
of
Section
337.02(f)(3) where the proposed use
is surrounded by a Two-Family District and a day care, if located less

1034

May 15, 2002
than 30'
from any premises in a
Residence District not used for similar purpose, is subject to the Board
of Zoning Appeals approval as stated in Section 343.11 of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-97: 5918 Bangor
Avenue (Ward 12)
Leo Aukerman, owner, appeals to
install approximately 29 linear feet
of 4' high chain link fencing to the
west front yard of a 43' x 125' parcel located in a Two-Family District
on the north side of Bangor Avenue
at 5918 Bangor Avenue; said installation being contrary to the Fence
Regulations, where in Residential
Districts only ornamental fences
shall be installed in the actual front
yards
as
stated
in
Section
358.04(c)(1) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-98: 3500 Lorain Avenue (Ward 14)
3500 LTD, owners c/o John Wilbur
of Ohio City Near West, appeal to
renovate
an
existing
irregular
shaped, 5-story masonry bank and
office building and to expand and
renovate an existing parking lot all
situated on an irregular shaped parcel located in a Local Retail Business District and a Two-Family District on the northeast corner of Fulton Road and Lorain Avenue at 3500
Lorain Avenue; said renovation and
expansion being contrary to the Residential District Requirements of
Section 337.03, where parking lots
are not permitted in a Two-Family
District and the proposed expansion
is located in a Two-Family District
and contrary to the Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements of
Section 349.04(g), where 60 parking
spaces are required and 39 are provided and Section 349.05, where
parking is not permitted within 10'
of any wall of a residence building
wall with openings and the proposed parking spaces are 4' from a
residence
building
and
Section
349.07, where accessory off-street
parking shall be properly graded for
drainage and contrary to the Landscaping
and
Screening
Requirements of Section 352.09, where an 8'
wide transition strip is required
between the parking lot and the
Two-Family District and Section
352.10, where a 6' wide landscaping
strip is required along Fulton Road
between the parking lot and the
street and contrary to the Fence
Regulations of Section 358.04(a),
where the maximum height of fence
permitted in the actual front yard is
4' and 6' is proposed and contrary
to the Expansion of a Nonconforming Use Requirements, where the
existing establishment has more
than 5 workers and offices in a
Local Retail Business District are
permitted with no more than 5 workers at any given time as stated in
Section 359.01 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-102: 6502 St. Clair
Avenue (Ward 13)
John Dunlop, owner, and Richard
Shurney, lessee, appeal to change
the use of an existing 28' x 120'
two-story masonry building into a
barber shop, car wash and auto
detailing shop all situated on an
irregular “L” shaped parcel located
in a Local Retail Business District
and a Two-Family District on the
southeast corner of Addison Road
and St. Clair Avenue at 6502 St.
Clair Avenue; said change of use
being contrary to the Residential

May 15, 2002
District Requirements, where a car
wash and auto detailing shop are
not permitted in a Two-Family District and contrary to the Business
District Requirements of Section
343.01, where in a Local Retail Business District a car wash and auto
detailing are not permitted and a
car wash is not permitted within
100' of a Residential District and
the proposed uses are in and adjacent to a Residential District and
contrary to the Landscaping and
Screening Requirements, where a 6'
wide frontage strip is required
where the parking lot fronts on the
street and a 10' wide transition
strip is required where the Retail
District abuts the Residential District at the rear, as stated in Section
352.08 through 352.11 of the Codified
Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 13, 2002
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, May 13,
2002, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 02-74: 5021 Pearl Road
Don Petruzzi, d.b.a. Don’s Chevrolet, owner, appealed to install a 56'
high pole sign with a 640 sq. ft. illuminated cabinet in addition to an
existing
free-standing
business
identification sign in a General
Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 02-76: 6202 St. Clair
Avenue
McGregor Development, owners,
appealed to convert a former first
floor retail space of a 49' x 120'-6"
two-story retail building into 7 new
apartment units in a Local Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 02-77: 13511 Union Avenue
Burger King Corporation, owner,
and Mt. Pleasant Development Corporation appealed to construct a
43,000 sq. ft. three-story, 39 unit
elderly housing complex in split
zoning between General Retail Business and Semi-Industry Districts;
subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 02-83: 3593-3609 East
65th Street (Units 1-4)
Broadway Area Housing and Slavic Village Development appealed to
construct a 48' x 88' two-story,
frame 4 unit townhouse building on
a 160' x 200' parcel in a Local
Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 02-84: 3593-3609 East
65th Street (Units 5-8)
Broadway Area Housing and Slavic Village Development appealed to
construct a 48' x 88' two-story,
frame 4 unit townhouse building on
a 160' x 200' parcel in a Local
Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 02-44: 2141 West 28th
Street
Bruce Hedderson appealed to construct
a
two-story,
one
family
dwelling house on a 32' x 119.50'
parcel in a Two-Family District;
subject to conditions.

The City Record
Calendar No. 02-45: 2149 West 28th
Street
Bruce Hedderson appealed to construct a 25' x 49' two-story, one
family dwelling house on a 33' x
119.50' parcel in a Two-Family District; subject to conditions.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 02-75: 1866 West 44th
Street postponed to May 28, 2002.
Calendar No. 02-78: 3620 Superior
Avenue postponed to June 3, 2002.
Calendar No. 02-100: 3430 Rocky
River Drive postponed to June 3,
2002.
The following appeal was Reinstated:
Calendar No. 02-28: 395 East 152nd
Street
Stark Group, owners, and Tonya
Martin, tenant, appealed to change
the use of a first floor of a two-story
carryout restaurant into a nail salon
in a Multi-Family District.
On Monday, May 13, 2002, in Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on Monday, May 6,
2002, and said decisions were adopted and approved in Executive Session on May 13, 2002:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 02-22: 3311 West 63rd
Street
Antonio Millet, owner, appealed to
change the use of a one-story, 70' x
125' “L” shaped packaging building
into an auto repair shop in a SemiIndustry District; upon condition for
fence installation at the south side
that abuts residence property.
Calendar No. 02-67: 1826 West 26th
Street
Hallie Incorporated, owners, appealed to construct a 26' x 37' single
family,
2
1/2-story
frame
dwelling (Unit C) with a 19' x 20'
attached garage below the first
floor in a General Retail Business
District.
Calendar No. 02-68: 1830 West 26th
Street
Hallie Incorporated, owners, appealed to construct a 34'-8" x 35'-9"
single family, 2 1/2-story frame
dwelling (Unit B) with a 20' x 21'
attached garage below the first
floor in a General Retail Business
District.
Calendar No. 02-69: 2602 Bridge Avenue
Hallie Incorporated, owners, appealed to construct a 26' x 37' single family, 2 1/2-story frame dwelling (Unit A) with a 20' x 21'
attached garage below the first
floor in a General Retail Business
District.
Calendar No. 02-72: 15725 Lorain Avenue
Seven Seas, owner, appealed to
construct a 14' x 40' one story,
masonry storage building to the
rear of a one and two-story store
and dwelling unit building in a General Retail Business District; subject
to submission of modified plan.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

1035

49
REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
May 8, 2002
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-158-01.
RE: Appeal of Faez Muntaser,
Owner of the Two Story Frame Commercial Property located on the
premises known as 8701 Superior
Avenue from a NUISANCE CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing,
dated August 18, 2001, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
No action is required by the Board
at this time, noting that the appeal
has been Withdrawn and the property will be demolished.
*

*

*

Docket A-24-02.
RE: Appeal of Samuel Mirakian &
Associated Real Estate Management Co., Owner of the Multi-Family Masonry Property located on the
premises known as 2836 Franklin
Avenue (a.k.a. 1577 — 67 West 29th
Street) from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and
Housing, dated February 6, 2002,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 2836 Franklin Avenue
(a.k.a. 1577 — 67 West 29th Street)
to the Division of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-38-02.
RE: Appeal of Scott Pickering,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 1526 West
25th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE CODE of the Chief
of the Division of Fire, dated February 12, 2002, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variances to the required systems with
the
provision
that
all
flammables/combustibles
be
removed
within three (3) weeks and that all
functioning fire doors in the compartments be maintained. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders
and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.

The City Record

50
Docket A-40-02.
RE: Appeal of Andrew M. Hardy
Jr., Owner of the One & One/half
Story
Property
located
on
the
premises known as 18521 St. Clair
Avenue (a.k.a. 18521-23 St. Clair
Avenue) from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing, dated February 15,
2002, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to modify the
Commissioner’s 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS and LETTER OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH by granting the Appellant one
(1) month in which to obtain permits, and three (3) months in which
to complete abatement of the violations. Upon passage of this motion,
this matter shall be REMANDED at
this time to the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
for supervision and any required
further action. All other provisions
of the 30 DAY CONDEMNATION
ORDER — MS and LETTER OF
INTENTION
TO
DEMOLISH
not
modified by this decision shall
remain in full force and effect,
including the provisions that the
City may abate the nuisance conditions of the premises by means of
demolition if abatement of the violations is not completed by August
30, 2002. Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-42-02.
RE: Appeal of James Mason/Joseph Lardner, Owners of the Property located on the premises known
as 12211 Sobieski Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE
CODE of the Chief of the Division
of Fire, dated February 21, 2002,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 12211 Sobieski Avenue to
the Division of Fire to pursue abatement of the violations. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-43-02.
RE: Appeal of R&B Properties
Ltd., Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 1855 Cliffview Road from a LIMITATION ON
THE PERMIT of the Commissioner
of the Division of Building and
Housing,
dated
March
28,
2002,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant a thirty (30) day “Extension Of Time” on the PERMIT, with
the understanding that if the Appel-

lant
continues
to
make
good
progress, the Appellant can receive
continued extensions from the Building Department; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Division of Building and Housing
for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-45-02.
RE:
Appeal
of
Case
Western
Reserve University, Owner of the
Greenhouse Property located on the
premises known as 2215 Adelbert
Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — HVAC of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and
Housing, dated March 4, 2002, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to approve the
installation as proposed with the
provision that all areas be sprinklered as directed by the Fire Prevention Bureau. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Saunders, Saab, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Not
Voting: Mr. Denk.
*

*

*

Docket A-46-02.
RE: Appeal of Commissioners,
Cuyahoga County of Ohio, Owner of
the Regional Criminal Justice Center located on the premises known
as 1215 West 3rd Street from a LIMITATION ON THE PERMIT — ELEVATOR CODE of the Commissioner
of the Division of Building and
Housing, dated August 7, 2001, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
No action at this time; the docket
will be rescheduled for May 22, 2002.
*

*

*

Docket A-62-02.
RE: Appeal of Jacobs Investment
Management Co., Inc., Owner of the
Property located on the premises
known as 2000 Sycamore Street from
an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated April
17, 2002, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variances and require that the Fire Prevention Bureau impose conditions to
allow the structure to be constructed and operated as proposed, noting
that this action is in place for three
(3) years and on the restroom portion of the property only, and noting that other conditions exist.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Saunders and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.

1036

May 15, 2002
Docket A-68-02.
RE: Appeal of George Arquilla,
III, Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 1278 West
9th Street from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing,
dated April 1, 2002, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variances required to allow the openings
to exit on the property line, noting
the mutual use of the alleyway,
with the requirement that exiting to
the right-of-way comply with or be
approved by the Division of Building and Housing and the Fire Prevention Bureau out of that shared
access space. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

EXTENSION OF TIME:
Docket A-174-01 – Darnell Champion
– 830 Eddy Road:
A motion is in order at this time
to REMAND the property at 830
Eddy Road to the Division of Building and Housing for supervision,
with the understanding that the permit will remain in effect as long as
satisfactory progress is being made
with the approval of the Building
Department. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-175-01 – Wells Fargo
Home Mortgage, Inc. – 7917 Laumar
Avenue:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant a three (3)
month “Extension Of Time” on the
permit with the condition that the
property be maintained and secured,
the grounds debris free, and that the
boarding be painted to compliment
the structure during that period of
time; the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Division of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Resolutions as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-25-02—Lewis G. Robinson.
A-33-02—Jason A. Cope.
A-55-02—Dan G. Palmer.

The City Record

May 15, 2002
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Saunders for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-34-02—Pavco, Inc.
A-58-02—Leroy Decembly.
A-59-02—Thomas Ungrady Jr.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-36-02—Altegra Credit Company.
A-44-02—James Ryan.
A-66-02—Martin L. Keefer.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolution as presented by the
Secretary for the following Docket,
subject to the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-41-02—Cuyahoga Lorain Corp.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Minutes as presented by
the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC):
April 24, 2002
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab,
Gallagher,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

51

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee on
City Planning and Finance

Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning

Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Monday, May 20, 2002
1:30 P.M.

Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, May 29, 2002
1:00 P.M.

Notice is hereby given to all interested persons that the Council Committee on City Planning and Committee on Finance will hold a joint
Public Hearing in the Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217, City Hall,
Cleveland, Ohio, on Monday, May 20,
2002, at 1:30 P.M. to consider the following ordinance now pending in
the Council:

Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a Public Hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, May 29, 2002, at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinance now pending in the Council:

Ord. No. 737-01.
By Councilmen Gordon, Lewis and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 343.11 and 347.12 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by various ordinances; and to repeal Section 225.07,
as amended by Ordinance No. 653-92,
relating to tattooing and body piercing.
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
JOSEPH C. CIMPERMAN
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
FRANK G. JACKSON
Chairman
Committee on Finance
May 8, 2002 and May 15, 2002

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, May 29, 2002
1:00 P.M.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a Public Hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, May 29, 2002, at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinance now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 417-02.
By Councilman Brady.
An ordinance to change the zoning of properties on the north and
south side of Lorain Avenue west of
West Boulevard and on the south
side of Lorain Avenue east of
Bosworth Road. (Map Change Nos.
2041, 2042 and 2043, Sheet No. 2)
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
JOSEPH C. CIMPERMAN
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
May 8, 2002 and May 15, 2002

1037

Ord. No. 944-02.
By Councilman Zone.
To change the zoning of properties on the southeast and southwest
corners of West 54th Street and Herman Avenue Road. (Map Change No.
2046, Sheet No. 1)
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
JOSEPH C. CIMPERMAN
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
May 15, 2002 and May 22, 2002

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”

The City Record

52
FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2002
Messenger Services, for the Various
Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 341-02,
passed by Council of the City of
Cleveland, April 1, 2002.

THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING ON THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2002, AT 2:30 P.M.
AT THE DIVISION OF WATER,
4th FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.

May 8, 2002 and May 15, 2002
THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2002
Camera Systems For District Jail
Booking and Prison Unit Booking,
for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 497-01,
passed by Council of the City of
Cleveland, May 21, 2002.
May 8, 2002 and May 15, 2002
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 5, 2002
The Purchase of Various Items of
Fence Installation and/or Repair,
for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2358-01, passed by Council of the City of Cleveland, on
February 11, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING ON WEDNESDAY, MAY 22, 2002 AT 10:00 A.M.
AT
CLEVELAND
PUBLIC
POWER,
LOCATED
AT
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Labor and Materials Necessary for
Painting and Paint Removal on
Roadways, Runways, and other
Paved Areas, for the Various Divisions of the Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 128-02, passed by Council of the City of Cleveland, March
25, 2002.
Service Fittings, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities as authorized by Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING ON FRIDAY,
MAY 24, 2002, AT 10:30 A.M., AT
THE DIVISION OF WATER-DISTRIBUTION & MAINTENANCE,
4600
HARVARD
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105, PIPE
REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM.
May 15, 2002 and May 22, 2002

May 15, 2002 and May 22, 2002
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 12, 2002
Repair of 1750 HP Synchronous
Motor Unit #58 2nd High Service
Pump at Fairmount Pump Station,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2352-01,
passed by Council of the City of
Cleveland, March 4, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING
ON
WEDNESDAY,
MAY 22, 2002, AT 10:00 A.M. AT
THE CARL B. STOKES, PUBLIC
UTILITIES BUILDING, AUDITORIUM-1st FLOOR, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114, FOLLOWED BY SITE
VISIT AT FAIRMOUNT PUMP
STATION,
2316
WOODHILL
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO.
May 15, 2002 and May 22, 2002

May 15, 2002 and May 22, 2002
FRIDAY, JUNE 7, 2002
Rental and/or Purchase of Flashers,
Safety Lights, Arrow Bars and
Traffic Control Devices, for the
Various Divisions of the Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1160-01,
passed by Council of the City of
Cleveland, July 18, 2001.

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 547-02.
By Councilmen Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution supporting the Board of Cuyahoga County
Commissioners Clean Ohio Revitalization grant application to the Ohio
Department of Development.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby supports the Board of Cuyahoga
County Commissioners Clean Ohio
Revitalization grant application to
the Ohio Department of Development which will assist in the remediation of the land for the Cuyahoga
County Youth Intervention Center,
to be located at Quincy Avenue and
East 93rd Street.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to send copies
of this resolution to the Board of
Cuyahoga County Commissioners.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 6, 2002.
Effective May 6, 2002.

FRIDAY, JUNE 14, 2002
Labor and Materials to Repair or
Replace Roofs, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1147-01, passed by Council of
the City of Cleveland, July 18,
2001.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING ON WEDNESDAY, MAY 29, 2002, AT 11:00 A.M.
AT THE 2nd FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
May 15, 2002 and May 22, 2002
THURSDAY, JUNE 27, 2002

THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2002
Night Vision Binoculars, for the
Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 497-01, passed by
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 21, 2001.

May 15, 2002

Addition of Autosampler to Existing
Varian Gas Chromatograph Mass
Spectrometer and Accessories, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, as authorized
by Section 129.28, of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 5, 2002, AT 1:00 P.M.,
LOCATED AT CARL B. STOKES,
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
May 15, 2002 and May 22, 2002

1038

Res. No. 867-02.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a New C1
Liquor Permit to 12029 Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
issuance of a New C1 Liquor Permit
to Poni, Inc., DBA Outlet Store, 12029
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44111, Permit No. 7011161; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

May 15, 2002
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a New C1 Liquor Permit
to Poni, Inc., DBA Outlet Store, 12029
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permit
No.
7011161,
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Res. No. 868-02.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency resolution urging
the establishment of an annual
Cleveland Teacher Appreciation Day
to be celebrated in September.
Whereas,
there
are
numerous
national days of recognition such as
“Mother’s Day,” “Father’s Day,” and
“Grandparent’s Day” acknowledging
and thanking those people who are
important in our lives; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland deeply believes that
teachers make an invaluable contribution to the betterment of our children and our communities; and
Whereas, as we begin “National
Teacher Appreciation Week,” Cleveland City Council is supportive of
the establishment of an annual day
of recognition in Cleveland entitled
“Cleveland
Teacher
Appreciation
Day” to publicly thank teachers for
their hard work and dedication to
enriching the lives of our children;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public safety, welfare and
health; now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland urges the Administration to formally dedicate an
annual day of recognition entitled
“Cleveland
Teacher
Appreciation
Day” to publicly acknowledge and
express appreciation to teachers for
their hard work and dedication to
enriching the lives of our children
to be established on the last Friday
in September, the date nearest to the
birth of the great teacher Confucius.

The City Record
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 6, 2002.
Effective May 6, 2002.
Res. No. 869-02.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution urging
the Cleveland Board of Education to
reconsider its proposed closure of
Oliver H. Perry Elementary School
and to either rehabilitate the current school or construct a new
school on the current site, to consider converting Margaret Spellacy
Middle School to a K-8 school, and
to
consider
purchasing
property
north of Hannah Gibbons Elementary School for expansion or construction of a new school, all in
Ward 11.
Whereas, in late March, 2002, the
Cleveland Board of Education announced the proposed closure of a
number of schools throughout the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
was
very
concerned
about
the
impact of the proposed school closures on Cleveland neighborhoods;
and
Whereas, after the school closure
announcement
by
the
Cleveland
Board of Education, members of
Council held a public meeting with
Barbara Byrd Bennett, CEO of the
Cleveland School District, and other
school administrators to gain an
understanding of the rationale and
process surrounding the proposed
school closures; and
Whereas, the residents of Ward 11
are
hopeful
that
the
Cleveland
Board of Education will act fairly
and reasonably in dealing with the
sensitive issue of school closings;
and
Whereas, this Council urges the
Cleveland Board of Education to
consider all possible alternatives
before making the decision to close
schools; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby urges the Cleveland Board of
Education to reconsider its proposed
closure of Oliver H. Perry Elementary School and to either rehabilitate the current school or construct
a new school on the current site, to
consider converting Margaret Spellacy Middle School to a K-8 school,
and to consider purchasing property
north of Hannah Gibbons Elementary School for expansion or construction of a new school, all in
Ward 11.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.

1039

53
Res. No. 870-02.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a New C1
Liquor Permit to 5909 Fleet Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
issuance of a New C1 Liquor Permit
to Nipo, DBA Outlet Store, 5909 Fleet
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permit No. 6423081; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a New C1 Liquor Permit
to Nipo, DBA Outlet Store, 5909 Fleet
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permit No. 6423081, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.

54
Res. No. 871-02.
By Councilmen Zone, Dolan and
Jones.
An
emergency
resolution
condemning the practice of check cashing businesses of charging exorbitant fees for cashing checks and
calling upon the state attorney general to strictly enforce state checkcashing
laws
that
prohibit
the
charging of high fees.
Whereas, check-cashing businesses cash checks for individuals for a
fee; and
Whereas, check-cashing businesses are a necessary service for many
individuals who are unable to use
banks or banking services; and
Whereas, under Section 1315.26 of
the Revised Code, no check-cashing
business shall charge check-cashing
fees or other check-cashing charges
in an amount that exceeds three per
cent (3%) of the face amount of the
check for cashing checks issued in
Ohio; and
Whereas, although it is against
state law to charge exorbitant fees
for cashing checks, some checkcashing
businesses
nevertheless
make it a practice to charge significantly more than 3% of the face
value of the check to cash that
check; and
Whereas, the practice of charging
exorbitant fees for cashing checks
preys upon those people who can
least afford to pay such costs; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby condemns the practice of checkcashing
businesses
of
charging
exorbitant fees for cashing checks
and calls upon the state attorney
general to strictly enforce state
check-cashing laws that prohibit the
charging of high fees.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution to
the Attorney General of the State of
Ohio and to those members of the
Ohio legislature representing Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 2031-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 627.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 90-96,
passed March 18, 1996, relating to
the definition of weapons and explosives.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that devices capable of
expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by compressed gas are
firearms and should be classified as
such; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Section 627.01 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 90-96, passed March 18,
1996 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 627.01 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
(a) “Deadly weapon” means any
instrument, device or thing capable
of inflicting death, and designed or
specially adapted for use as a
weapon, or possessed, carried or
used as a weapon.
(b) (1) “Firearm” means any deadly weapon capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles
by the action of an explosive or
combustible propellant or by pump
action or by compressed gas. “Firearm” includes an unloaded firearm,
and any firearm which is inoperable
but which can readily be rendered
operable.
(2) When determining whether a
firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles
by the action of an explosive or
combustible propellant, the trier of
fact may rely upon circumstantial
evidence, including, but not limited
to, the representations and actions
of the individual exercising control
over the firearm.
(c) “Handgun” means any firearm
designed to be fired while being
held in one hand.
(d) “Semi-automatic firearm” means
any firearm designed or specially
adapted to fire a single cartridge
and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to fire, with
a single function of the trigger.
(e) “Automatic firearm” means
any firearm designed or specially
adapted to fire a succession of cartridges with a single function trigger. “Automatic firearm” also means
any
semi-automatic
firearm
designed or specially adapted to fire
more
than
thirty-one
cartridges
without reloading, other than a
firearm chambering only .22 caliber
short, long or long-rifle cartridges.
(f) “Sawed-off firearm” means a
shotgun with a barrel less than
eighteen inches long, or a rifle with
a barrel less than sixteen inches
long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
twenty-six inches long overall.
(g) “Zip-gun” means any of the
following:
(1) Any firearm of crude and
extemporized manufacture;
(2) Any device, including without
limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but which is
specially adapted for use as a
firearm;
(3) Any industrial tool, signaling
device or safety device, not designed
as a firearm, but which as designed
is capable of use as such, when possessed, carried or used as a firearm.
(h) “Explosive device” means any
device designed or specially adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of an
explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and
a means to detonate it. “Explosive
device” includes without limitation
any bomb, any explosive demolition
device, any blasting cap or detonator containing an explosive charge,
and any pressure vessel which has
been knowingly tampered with or
arranged so as to explode.
(i) “Incendiary device” means any
firebomb, and any device designed
or specially adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by
means of fire, and consisting of an
incendiary substance or agency and
a means to ignite it.

1040

May 15, 2002
(j) “Ballistic knife” means a knife
with a detachable blade that is propelled by a spring-operated mechanism.
(k) “Dangerous ordnance” means
any of the following, except as provided in division (1) of this section:
(1) Any automatic or sawed-off
firearm, zip-gun or ballistic knife;
(2) Any explosive device or incendiary device;
(3) Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose,
nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite, TNT,
picric acid and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol, pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other
high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives;
dynamite,
blasting
gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized
ammonium
nitrate,
liquid-oxygen
blasting explosives, blasting powder
and other blasting agents; and any
other explosive substance having
sufficient brisance or power to be
particularly suitable for use as a
military explosive, or for use in mining, quarrying, excavating or demolitions;
(4) Any firearm, rocket launcher,
mortar,
artillery
piece,
grenade,
mine,
bomb,
torpedo
or
similar
weapon, designed and manufactured
for
military
purposes,
and
the
ammunition for that weapon;
(5)
Any
firearm
muffler
or
silencer;
(6) Any combination of parts that
is intended by the owner for use in
converting any firearm or other
device into a dangerous ordnance.
(l) “Dangerous ordnance” does not
include any of the following:
(1) Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition
for that weapon, and regardless of
its actual age, which employs a percussion cap or other obsolete ignition system, or which is designed
and safe for use only with black
powder;
(2) Any pistol, rifle or shotgun,
designed or suitable for sporting
purposes,
including
a
military
weapon as issued or as modified,
and
the
ammunition
for
that
weapon, unless such firearm is an
automatic or sawed-off firearm;
(3) Any cannon or other artillery
piece which, regardless of its actual age, is of a type in accepted use
prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the tube into battery without
displacing
the
carriage,
and
is
designed and safe for use only with
black powder;
(4) Black powder, priming quills
and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a
type defined in division (l)(3) of
this section during displays, celebrations,
organized
matches
or
shoots, and target practice, and
smokeless
and
black
powder,
primers and percussion caps possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in smallarms or small-arms ammunition;
(5) Dangerous ordnance which is
inoperable or inert and cannot be
rendered operable or activated, and
which is kept as a trophy, souvenir,
curio or museum piece.
(6) Any device which is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the
“Gun Control Act of 1968,” 82 Stat.
1213, 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(4), and any
amendments or additions thereto or
reenactments thereof, and regulations issued thereunder. (RC 2923.11;
Ord. No. 90-96. Passed 3-18-96, eff. 326-96)

May 15, 2002
Section 2. That existing Section
627.01 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 90-96, passed March
18, 1996 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 6, 2002.
Ord. No. 2032-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, Lewis,
Patmon and Britt (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Sections 687.01 to 687.17 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
2187-96, passed June 12, 2000, relating to bounty hunters; and to supplement the Codified Ordinances by
enacting new Sections 687A.01 to
687A.08, relating to registration of
bail enforcement agents with the
City, and to enact prohibitions.
Whereas, Am. H.B. 730, enacts several provisions in the Insurance
Agents Law (Chapter 3905 of the
Revised Code) to provide for the
regulation
of
surety
bail
bond
agents by the Department of Insurance, including the licensing of such
agents, the appointment of agents
by insurers, agent registration, continuing
education
requirements,
build-up funds and collateral security, prohibited activities, and grounds
for disciplinary action [Source: Ohio
Legislative
Service
Commission];
and
Whereas, Am. H.B. 730 also enacts
provisions in the state criminal code
(R.C. Title 29) to prohibit any person from apprehending or arresting
a principal on bond unless the person meets the criteria set forth by
statute, and to prohibit the use of
the title “bail enforcement agent” or
“bounty hunter” in the State of Ohio
[Source: Ohio Legislative Service
Commission]; and
Whereas, in June 2000, this Council enacted Chapter 687 of the Codified Ordinances, pertaining to bounty hunters; and
Whereas, some of the provisions
of Chapter 687 of the Codified Ordinances conflict with the newlyenacted
state
law
provisions,
described in this preamble, which
took effect on October 9, 2001; and
Whereas, in recognition of the
state law changes, this ordinance
will conform the City’s ordinance to
the state law while retaining those
provisions that do not present a conflict, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 687.01
through 687.17, inclusive, of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, relating to bounty hunters, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 2187-96,
passed June 12, 2000, are hereby
repealed.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new
Sections
687A.01
through
687A.08 thereof to read, respectively,
as follows:

The City Record
CHAPTER 687A
SURETY BAIL BOND AGENTS
Section 687A.01 Definition of Surety Bail Bond Agent
As used in this Chapter, “surety
bail bond agent” has the same meaning as in Sections 3905.83 to 3905.95
of the Revised Code.
Section 687A.02 City Registration
Required to Act in the Capacity of
Surety Bail Bond Agent
(a) No person shall act in the
capacity of a surety bail bond agent
in the City of Cleveland, or perform
any of the functions, duties or powers prescribed for surety bail bond
agents under Sections 3905.83 to
3905.95 of the Revised Code in the
City of Cleveland, unless that person first registers with the Chief of
Police, in the manner described in
this Section.
(b) To register with the City of
Cleveland, a surety bail bond agent
shall file the following with the
Chief of Police:
(1) A certified copy of the surety
bail bond agent’s appointment by
power of attorney from each insurer that the surety bail bond agent
represents; and
(2) A copy of the surety bail bond
agent’s license issued by the Ohio
superintendent of insurance, and a
copy of the wallet identification
issued to the agent under Division
(G) of Revised Code Section 3905.85;
and
(3) The address and telephone
number of the surety bail bond
agent and such other information as
the Chief of Police may require to
effectuate the purposes of this Chapter.
(c) The Chief of Police shall not
accept the registration of a surety
bail bond agent unless the surety
bail bond agent is currently licensed
and appointed in accordance with
Sections 3905.83 to 3905.95 of the
Revised Code.
(d) Each surety bail bond agent
licensed and appointed in accordance
with
Sections
3905.83
to
3905.95 of the Revised Code shall
notify the Chief of Police within
thirty days of any change of address
of telephone number provided as
part of the registration required by
this section.
(e) Any person who violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree on the first
offense, and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent
offense.
[RC 2929.27(A)(3); RC 3905.87; RC
3905.89]
Section 687A.03 Notification of
Police Before Attempting Apprehension, Detention or Arrest
(a) No person acting as a bail
surety bond agent shall apprehend,
detain or arrest a principal on bond
within the City of Cleveland without first notifying the Division of
Police
that
the
same
will
be
attempted. The Chief of Police shall
prescribe the method by which notification
is
made.
The
notice
required by this section shall be
made at least thirty (30) minutes
prior to the attempted apprehension,
detention or arrest, unless rules or
regulations of the Chief of Police
shall otherwise direct.
(b) The Chief of Police may issue
rules and regulations to effectuate
the
provisions
of
this
Sections,
which shall be effective ten days
after publication in the City Record.

1041

55
(c) Any person who violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of
the
first
degree.
[RC
2927.27(A)(3)]
Section
687A.04
State
License
Required to Act in the Capacity of
Surety Bail Bond Agent
(a) No person shall act in the
capacity of a surety bail bond agent,
or perform any of the functions,
duties or powers prescribed for surety bail bond agents under Sections
3905.83 to 3905.95 of the Revised
Code, unless that person is qualified,
licensed, and appointed as provided
in those sections.
(b) This section shall not apply
whenever the conduct prohibited by
this section constitutes a felony
under Section 2927.27 of the Revised
Code.
(c) Any person who violates this
Section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree. [RC 3905.84; RC
3905.99.]
Section 687A.05 Persons Who May
Apprehend, Detain or Arrest a Principal on Bond Identified
(a) No person, other than a law
enforcement officer, shall apprehend, detain, or arrest a principal on
bond, wherever issued, unless that
person meets all of the following
criteria:
(1) The person is any of the following:
A.
Qualified,
licensed,
and
appointed as a surety bail bond
agent under Sections 3905.83 to
3905.95 of the Revised Code;
B. Licensed as a surety bail bond
agent by the state where the bond
was written;
C. Licensed as a private investigator under Chapter 4749 of the
Revised Code.
D. Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written;
E. An off-duty peace officer, as
defined in Section 2921.51 of the
Revised Code.
(2) The person, prior to apprehending, detaining or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written
contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent
appointed by the surety, which contract sets forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended,
detained or arrested.
For purposes of this division,
“surety” has the same meaning as in
Section 3905.83 of the Revised Code.
(3) The person, prior to apprehending, detaining o arresting the
principal, has complied with the registration
and
notification
requirements set forth in Sections
687A.02 and 687A.03 of this Chapter.
(b) This section shall not apply
whenever the conduct prohibited by
this section constitutes a felony
under Section 2927.27 of the Revised
Code.
(c) Any person who violates this
section is guilty of illegal bail bond
agent practices, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. [RC 2927.27]
Section 687A.06 Identification Card
to be Visible
(a) No person acting as a surety
bail bond agent shall attempt an
apprehension, detention or arrest of
a principal on bail without wearing
on his or her outermost clothing, in
a conspicuous manner visible to any
citizen or police officer, the wallet
identification issued to the agent by
the superintendent of insurance of
Ohio under division (G) of Revised
Code Section 3905.85.

56
(b) Any person who violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
Section 687A.07 Hiring Unqualified
Surety Bail Bond Agent Prohibited
(a) No person shall employ as a
surety bail bond agent any person
who is not licensed and appointed in
accordance with Sections 3905.83 to
3905.95 of the Revised Code or who
is not registered with the Chief of
Police in accordance with Section
687A.02 of this Chapter.
(b) Any person who violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
Section 687A.08 Masks Prohibited
(a) No person acting as a surety
bail bond agent shall attempt an
apprehension, detention or arrest of
a principal on bail while wearing
any type of mask, or similar facial
covering.
(b) Any person who violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 282-02.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 3512 Walton Avenue
to AFFORD.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 007-20-056
and
007-20-057
as
more
fully
described below, to AFFORD.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 007-20-056
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 420 and 421 in Hiram
Stone’s addition of a part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 53 and
68, as shown by the recorded plat of

The City Record
said addition in Volume 1 of Maps,
Page
41
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Northerly line of Walton Avenue, S.W., 30
feet Westerly from the Southeasterly corner of Sublot No. 421; thence
Northerly and parallel with the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 421,
180 feet; thence Easterly and parallel with Walton Avenue, S.W., 30
feet; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of Sublot No. 421, 46
feet; thence Easterly and parallel
with Walton Avenue, S.W., 10 feet;
thence Southerly and parallel with
the Westerly line of Sublot No. 421,
134 feet to the Northerly line of Walton Avenue, S.W.; thence Westerly
along the Northerly line of Walton
Avenue, S.W., 40 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 007-20-057
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly feet of the Westerly 70 feet of
Sublot No. 421 in Hiram Stone’s
Addition, being Subdivision of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
Nos. 53 and 63, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps,
Page
41
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Walton Avenue, S.W. and extending back of
equal width of 180 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.

1042

May 15, 2002
Ord. No. 409-02.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 2082-01, passed December 10,
2001, relating to a requirement contract of traffic signals, poles, controllers,
sign
blanks,
reflective
sheeting and other related materials
to include pavement marking, for
the Division of Traffic Engineering,
Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2082-01,
passed December 10, 2001, are hereby amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of traffic signals, poles,
controllers, sign blanks, reflective
sheeting and other related materials, and labor and materials necessary to mark pavements at various
locations, for the Division of Traffic
Engineering, Department of Public
Service.
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of traffic signals, poles, controllers, sign
blanks, reflective sheeting and other
related materials and labor and
materials necessary to mark pavements at various locations, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Traffic
Engineering, Department of Public
Service. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 208201, passed December 10, 2001, are
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 413-02.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 61st and 59th
Streets to Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.

May 15, 2002
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-29-101,
118-29-102, 118-28-029, as more fully
described below, to Burten, Bell,
Carr Development, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-101
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
89 in the W.S. and M.W. Chamberlain’s Allotment of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and
335, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 28 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 40 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 61st Street (formerly
Lodge Avenue) and extending back
of equal width 160 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 118-29-102
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
90 in W.S. and M.W. Chamberlain’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and 335,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 61st Street (formerly Lodge
Avenue) and extending back of
equal width 160 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 118-28-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 233 in the Chamberlain
Allotment and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Southerly right of way of Central Avenue (80 feet wide) and the
Westerly right of way of East 59th
Street (60 feet wide); thence South
00° 15' 24" East, along the said
Westerly right of way of East 59th
Street, a distance of 560.88 feet to a
point, said point also being the
place of beginning of the parcel
herein described; thence South 00°
15' 24" East, a distance of 40.33 feet
to a point; thence South 89° 33' 41"
West, a distance of 149.90 feet to a
point; thence North 00° 15' 57" West,
a distance of 40.29 feet to a point;

The City Record
thence North 89° 32' 46" East, a distance of 149.90 feet to the place of
beginning and containing therein
6,042 square feet (0.1387 acre) of
land, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
This description was prepared by
Suhail and Suhail, Inc. based on a
survey performed in November 2001.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 414-02.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and
located
on
scattered
sites
between Cedar and Central on East
46th and East 70th Streets to Burten,
Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the

1043

57
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-22-042 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-22-042
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
45 in Coleman and Tine’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 335, as shown by
the recorded plat in said Subdivision
in Volume 17 of Maps, Page 8 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 40 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 70th Street (formerly
Irvington Street) and extends back
between parallel lines 134 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-22-051 as
more
fully
described
below
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-22-051
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 35 feet of Sublot No. 84 in
Coleman and Van Tine’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 335, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 17 of Maps,
Page
8
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 35 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 70th
Street, 139.46 feet deep on the
Southerly line, about 139.38 feet deep
on the Northerly line and 35 feet
wide in rear, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-22-052 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-22-052
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Northerly 5 feet of Sublot No. 84 and all of
Sublot No. 85 in Coleman and Van
Tine’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 335,
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Subdivision in Volume 17 of
Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said part of Sublot No. 84
and all of Sublot No. 85 together
from a parcel of land having a
frontage of 45 feet on the Westerly
side of East 70th Street, (formerly
Irvington
Street)
and
extending
back 139 32/100 feet on the Northerly line and about 139 40/100 on the
Southerly line, and having a rear

58
line of 45 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-23-052 as
more fully described, to Burten, Bell,
Carr Development, Inc.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-23-052
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
106 in Coleman and Van Tine’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 335 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 17
of Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40 feet front
on the Westerly side of East 70th
Street 137.87 feet on the Northerly
line, 137.94 feet on the Southerly line
and has a rear line of 40 feet as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-23-053 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-23-053
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
the Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 335 and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 70th Street (formerly Irvington
Street), at a point distant Southerly
296 11/100 feet from the center line
of Cedar Avenue, S.E.; thence Westerly at right angles with East 70th
Street, about 138 feet to the Westerly line of said proposed Subdivision; thence Southerly on said Westerly line 40 feet; thence Easterly
parallel with said Northerly line
about 138 feet to the Westerly line
of East 70th Street; thence Northerly along Westerly line of East 70th
Street, 40 feet to the place of beginning and being further known as
Sublot No. 105 in Coleman and Van
Tine’s Proposed Subdivision, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-23-054 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-23-054
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

The City Record
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
104 in Coleman and Van Tine Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 335 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 17
of Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40 feet front
on the Westerly side of East 70th
Street and extending back of equal
width
138.01
feet
deep
on
the
Northerly line and 138.08 feet deep
on the Southerly line, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-23-058 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-23-058
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 5 feet of Sublot No. 100
and the Southerly 30 feet of Sublot
No. 101 in Coleman and Van Tine’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 335, as shown
by the recorded plat of said Subdivision in Volume 17 of Maps, Page
8 of Cuyahoga County Records and
forming a parcel of land being 35
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 70th Street (formerly Irvington
Street) and extending back 138.30
feet on the Southerly line, 138.23 feet
on the Northerly line and having a
rear line of 35 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-23-065 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-23-065
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 35 feet of Sublot No. 69
and the Southerly 2.5 feet of Sublot
No. 70 in the Coleman and Van
Tines Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 335
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 17 of Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Records and being
37.50 feet front on the Easterly side
of East 70th Street and extending
back of equal width 134 feet as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-23-066 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

1044

May 15, 2002
P. P. No. 118-23-066
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 37.5 feet of Sublot No. 70
in Coleman and Van Tine’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 335, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 17 of
Maps, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 37.50 feet front
on the Easterly side of East 70th
Street, (formerly Irvington Street),
and extending back of equal width
134 feet, as appears by said plat.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-034 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 20 feet of Sublot No. 74
and the Northerly 15 feet of Sublot
No. 75 in W.J. Gordon’s Subdivision
of part of Original Ten Acre Lots
Nos. 71, 72 and 73, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
57
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 35 feet front on the
Easterly side of East 46th Street
(formerly Kennard Street) and extending back of equal width 150
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-035 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-035
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 5 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 73 and the Northerly
40 feet front to rear of Sublot No. 74
in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of part
of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 71,
72 and 73 as shown by the recorded
plat of said Allotment in Volume 5
of Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga County Records, said part of Sublot Nos.
73 and 74 together forming a parcel
of land having a frontage of 45 feet
on the Easterly side of East 46th
Street (formerly Kennard Street)
and extending back between parallel lines 150 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-037 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.

May 15, 2002
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
72 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 71, 72 and 73, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga County
Records, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 25. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-24-044 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-044
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
67 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos.
71, 72 and 73 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page
57 of Cuyahoga County Records, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 27. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-25-024 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 28. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-25-024
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 30 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 66 in W.J. Gordon’s
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lots Nos. 71, 72 and 73 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga
County Records and being a parcel
of land 30 feet front on the Easterly side of Kennard Street, now
known as East 46th Street, and
extending back of equal width 150
feet deep.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 29. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized. to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-25-028 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 30. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-25-028
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 30 feet, front to rear, of
Sublot No. 63 and the Northerly 15
feet, front to rear, of Sublot No. 64
in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of part
of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 71,
72 and 73, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page
57 of Cuyahoga County Records,

The City Record
said parts of said Sublot Nos. 63 and
64 together forming a parcel of land
having a frontage of 45 feet on the
Easterly side of East 46th Street
(formerly
Kennard
Street),
and
extending back between parallel
lines 150 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 31. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-25-029 as
more fully described below, to.
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 32. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-25-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 15 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 62 and the Northerly
30 feet from front to rear of Sublot
No. 63, in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos.
71, 72, and 73, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
57
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 45 feet front on the
Easterly side of East 46th Street
and extending back of equal width
150 feet deep, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 33. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 103-25-030 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 34. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-25-030
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 45 feet of Sublot No. 62, in
the W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of part
of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 71,
72 and 73 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 57
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 45 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 46th Street (formerly
Kennard Street) and extending back
of equal width 150 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 35. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 36. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 37. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the

1045

59
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 38. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 415-02.
By Councilmen Scott, Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 221-01, passed April 9, 2001, relating to the acquisition and renovation of a vacant commercial building into a community center to create employment positions for Cleveland residents through the use of
Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 221-01,
passed April 9, 2001, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with First Light Community Development Corp. for acquisition and renovation of a vacant commercial building into a community
center in order to carry out the public purpose of assisting industry and
commerce by creation of employment positions in the City of Cleveland through the use of Ward 8
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with First Light Community
Development Corp. for acquisition
and renovation of a vacant commercial building into a community
center in order to carry out the public purpose of assisting industry and
commerce by creation of employment positions in the City of Cleveland through the use of Ward 8
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 22101, passed April 9, 2001, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.

60
Ord. No. 475-02.
By Councilmen Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply for and accept
a grant from the State of Ohio
Department of Development to conduct the State Home Weatherization
Assistance Program; and to enter
into contract with various organizations, individual landlords, tenants
and contractors for the purpose of
providing weatherization assistance
to low-income City residents through
the
State
Home
Weatherization
Assistance Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to apply for and accept
a grant in the approximate amount
of $2,868,788.00, from the State of
Ohio Department of Development, to
conduct the State Home Weatherization Assistance Program, for the
purposes set forth in the management plan and according thereto;
that the Director of Community
Development is hereby authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the management plan for
said grant.
Section 2. That the management
plan for said grant, File No. 475-02A, made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, is hereby approved
in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contract with
individual landlords, tenants, contractors and various non-profit organizations for the provision of weatherization assistance to low-income
City residents through the State
Home
Weatherization
Assistance
Program.
Section 4. That the cost of said
contracts shall not exceed, in the
aggregate, approximately $2,868,788.00,
and shall be paid from Fund Nos. 13
SF 947, 13 SF 948 and 13 SF 949.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 531-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a contract with the United States Department of Agriculture,
Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service and Wildlife Services for the
purpose of conducting operational
control activities to reduce wildlife
hazards to aircraft operating at
Burke
Lakefront
and
Cleveland
Hopkins International Airports.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into contract with the United
States Department of Agriculture,
Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service and Wildlife Services for the
purpose of conducting operational
control activities to reduce wildlife
hazards to aircraft operating at
Burke
Lakefront
and
Cleveland
Hopkins International Airports.
Section 2. That the contract shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such other provisions as the Director deems necessary to protect the public interest.
Section 3. That the cost of said
contract shall be paid from Fund No.
60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60
SF 106, and from any funds or subfunds to which are credited any federal grants, or federal PFC authorization for the above improvement
and the proceeds from the sale of
any airport revenue bonds issued for
a purpose which includes the above
contract, Request No. 113525.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.

Ord. No. 532-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 328-2000,
passed June 12, 2000, relating to the
purchase by requirement contract of
labor and materials necessary to
clean and maintain oil/water separators, sewers, electrical vaults and
associated appurtenances, including
test and disposal of waste materials,
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 328-2000, passed June 12,
2000, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. All expenditures under the
contract authorized herein shall not
exceed $300,000.00.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 328-2000, passed
June 12, 2000, is hereby repealed.

1046

May 15, 2002
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 533-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to clean, inspect, repair and
maintain oil/water separators, sewers, electrical vaults and associated
appurtenances,
including
testing
and disposal of waste materials, for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
clean, inspect, repair and maintain
oil/water separators, sewers, electrical vaults and associated appurtenances, including testing and disposal of waste materials in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 113522)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.

May 15, 2002
Ord. No. 602-02.
By Councilmen Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the State of Ohio, Clean
Ohio Program, for the brownfield
remediation
project
for
property
located at Preble and East 80th
Street to be used for the future
development
of
the
Hemisphere
Industrial Park; and authorizing
said Director to enter into contracts
with KINBESS LLC to implement
the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to apply for and accept
a grant in the amount of $3,000,000,
from the State of Ohio, Clean Ohio
Program, to conduct the brownfield
remediation project for property
located at Preble and East 80th
Street to be used for the future
development
of
the
Hemisphere
Industrial Park, for the purposes set
forth in the summary and according
thereto; that the Director of Economic Development is hereby authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the summary for said grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
said grant, File No. 602-02-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contracts
with KINBESS LLC to implement
the brownfield remediation project
as described in the summary.
Section 4. That the cost of said
contracts authorized herein shall be
paid from the fund or funds which
are credited the proceeds of the
grant accepted pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 6, 2002.
Ord. No. 603-02.
By Councilmen Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the State of Ohio, Clean
Ohio Program, for the brownfield
remediation
project
for
property
located at Euclid Avenue and East
58th Street to be used for the future
development of the MidTown Technology Center; and authorizing said
Director to enter into contracts with
MidTown Cleveland to implement
the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to apply for and accept
a grant in the amount of $3,000,000,
from the State of Ohio, Clean Ohio
Program, to conduct the brownfield
remediation project for property
located at Euclid Avenue and East
58th Street to be used for the future
development of the MidTown Technology Center, for the purposes set
forth in the summary and according
thereto; that the Director of Economic Development is hereby authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the summary for said grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
said grant, File No. 603-02-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contracts
with MidTown Cleveland to implement the brownfield remediation
project as described in the summary.
Section 4. That the cost of said
contracts authorized herein shall be
paid from the fund or funds which
are credited the proceeds of the
grant accepted pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 6, 2002.
Ord. No. 686-02.
By
Councilmen
Coats,
Gordon,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the State of Ohio, Clean
Ohio Program, for the brownfield
remediation project for property
located at East 152nd Street and
Ivanhoe Road to be used for the
future development of the Five
Points Industrial Park; and authorizing said Director to enter into
contract with Second Growth Institute to implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to apply for and accept
a grant in the amount of $1,752,000,
from the State of Ohio, Clean Ohio
Program, to conduct the brownfield
remediation project for property
located at East 152nd Street and
Ivanhoe Road to be used for the
future development of the Five
Points Industrial Park, for the purposes set forth in the summary and
according thereto; that the Director
of Economic Development is hereby
authorized to file all papers and

1047

61
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the summary for
said grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
said grant, File No. 686-02-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Second Growth Institute to
implement the brownfield remediation project as described in the summary.
Section 4. That the cost of said
contracts authorized herein shall be
paid from the fund or funds which
are credited the proceeds of the
grant accepted pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 6, 2002.
Ord. No. 856-02.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1490-2000,
passed August 28, 2000 relating to
the public improvements at Halloran
Park recreation facility to further
the public purpose of providing
recreation services to resident of the
City of Cleveland, through the use
of Ward 19 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1490-2000, passed August
28, 2000, are hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvements and purchases hereby
authorized be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited the proceeds of the sale of property authorized by Ordinance No. 512-99, passed
June 7, 1999, as described in Section
3 of that ordinance, following the
certification
of
certain
public
improvements authorized in Ordinance No. 104-2000, passed April 17,
2000 and not to exceed $11,216 of
Ward
19
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds, SF 10 166.
Section 2. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1490-2000, passed August
28, 2000, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.

62
Ord. No. 857-02.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Goodrich-Gannet Neighborhood Center to implement a Community Safety Program through the
use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Goodrich-Gannet Neighborhood
Center to implement a Community
Safety Program for the public purpose of enhancing neighborhood
safety
for
Cleveland
residents
through the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $38,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 858-02.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the American Heart Walk
on June 30, 2002, sponsored by the
American Heart Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the American Heart
Walk, sponsored by the American
Heart Association, on June 30, 2002,
beginning at East 9th and Erieside,
Erieside to West 3rd, West 3rd to
Lakeside, Lakeside to West 6th,
West 6th to St. Clair, St. Clair to
West 9th, West 9th to Superior,
Superior to West 3rd, West 3rd to
Lakeside, Lakeside to East 9th, East
9th to Erieside, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit shall
further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.

The City Record
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 859-02.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Clean Air Challenge
(Race) on June 23, 2002, sponsored
by the American Lung Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Clean Air Challenge, sponsored by the American
Lung Association, on June 23, 2002,
with the race beginning at Burke
Airport and North Marginal, North
Marginal to East 9th, cross East 9th
to Erieside, Erieside to West 3rd,
West 3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside to
West 9th, West 9th to Front, Front
to West 10th, West 10th to St. Clair,
St. Clair to West 3rd, West 3rd to
Erieside, Erieside to North Marginal, North Marginal to Burke Airport.,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 860-02.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Cintron, Gordon and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section
2
of
Ordinance
2419-01,
passed December 10, 2001 as it
relates to the Merrick House for the
Clark Fulton Consolidation Project
through the use of Ward 13, 14, 15
and 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1048

May 15, 2002
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance 2419-01, passed December 10,
2001 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $55,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance 2419-01, passed December 10,
2001 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 861-02.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance 86-02, passed
January 14, 2002 as it relates to the
Spanish American Committee and
the Three Kings Day Program
through the use of Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance 86-02, passed January 14, 2002
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $10,000 and shall be for
services rendered by the grantee on
January 5, 2002, and January 6, 2002,
and shall be paid from Fund No. 10
SF 116
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance 86-02, passed January 14, 2002
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 862-02.
By Councilmen Conwell and Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
University Circle Incorporated to
stretch banners on Martin Luther
King, Jr., Drive (east of the Cleveland Museum of Natural History),
on Stokes Boulevard and on Cedar
Hill, for the period from May 14,
2002 to June 15, 2002, inclusive, publicizing Parade the Circle Celebration.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

May 15, 2002
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to University Circle
Incorporated to install, maintain
and remove a banners on Martin
Luther King, Jr., Drive (east of the
Cleveland Museum of Natural History), on Stokes Boulevard and on
Cedar Hill, for the period from May
14, 2002 to June 15, 2002, inclusive.
Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.

Ord. No. 863-02.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Cuyahoga Community College Foundation for Ward 5
Community Leadership Development
Academy through the use of Ward
5 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Cuyahoga Community College Foundation for Ward 5 Community
Leadership
Development
Academy for the public purpose of
providing a leadership training program
for
Cleveland
residents
through the use of Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity Funds over a two
year period.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $88,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

The City Record
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.

Ord. No. 864-02.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance changing
the name of Ball Diamond #2 at
Humphrey Park to Raymond Bozak
Field.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of Ball
Diamond #2 at Humphrey Park
located at East 164 Street and Grovewood Avenue in Ward 11, shall be
hereafter
changed
to
Raymond
Bozak Field, and that the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
is authorized and directed to take
the necessary action to affect said
name changes and to post the proper signs.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 865-02.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Cudell Improvement, Inc.
for the Neighborhood Safety and
Support Services Program through
the use of Ward 18 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Cudell Improvement, Inc. for
the Neighborhood Safety and Support Services Program, for the public purpose for providing safety
forums to educate City residents on
crime prevention, and to coordinate
neighborhood crime watch activities
to keep neighborhoods safe, through
the use of Ward 18 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $70,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.

1049

63
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.
Ord. No. 866-02.
By Councilman Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section
2
of
Ordinance
2104-01,
passed November 12, 2001 as it
relates to the acquisition of property by the Cleveland Public Theatre
through the use of Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance 2104-01, passed November 12,
2001 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance 2104-01, passed November 12,
2001 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 6, 2002.
Effective May 9, 2002.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, May 13, 2002
Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: 11:00 a.m.
— Present:
Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice Chairman; Reed, Cintron,
Polensek, Coats. Excused: Johnson.
Finance Committee: 2:00 p.m.
—
Present:
Jackson,
Chairman;
Sweeney,
Vice
Chairman;
Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats, Brady. Excused: Britt,
Scott.
Tuesday, May 14, 2002
Community and Economic Development Committee: 9:30 a.m. — Present:
Gordon, Chairman, Cimperman, Vice Chairman; Reed, Scott,
Cintron, Zone, Lewis, Jones, Coats.
Wednesday, May 15, 2002
Public Safety Committee: 9:00 a.m.
— Present: Reed, Chairman; Coats,
Brady,
Jones,
Zone,
Cimperman,
Conwell. Excused: Britt, Chairman;
White.

The City Record

64

May 15, 2002

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
American Express — accounts payable recovery service — Finance Department
(O 898-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
American Heart Association
American Heart Walk — permit (O 858-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
American Lung Association
Clean Air Challenge (Race) — permit (O 859-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Banners
Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation — 19-location identification
(O 945-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parade the Circle Celebration — University Circle Incorporated (O 946-02)
Parade the Circle Celebration — University Circle Incorporated (O 862-02)
Sagrada Familia — Church Festival (O 950-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

banners
........
........
........
........

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1018
1019
1048
1019

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Adelbert Road, 2215, (Ward 9) – Case Western Reserve University, owner - appeal resolved
on 05/08/02 (Doc. A-45-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Caine Avenue, 13613, (Ward 1) – Altegra Credit Company, mortgagee - appeal adopted
on 05/08/02 (Doc. A-36-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cardinal Avenue, 14928, (Ward 10) – James Ryan, owner - appeal adopted on 05/08/02
(Doc. A-44-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cliffview Road, 1855, (Ward 10) – R&B Properties Ltd., owner - appeal resolved on
05/08/02 (Doc. A-43-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 57th Street, 3868, (Ward 12) – Jason A. Cope, owner - appeal adopted on
05/08/02 (Doc. A-33-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eddy Road, 830, (Ward 9) – Darnell Champion, land contract owner - extension of time
05/08/02 (Doc. A-174-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elk Avenue, 10131, (Ward 8) – Cuyahoga Lorain Corp., owner - appeal adopted on 05/08/02
(Doc. A-41-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Avenue, 2836, (1577-67 West 29th Street), (Ward 13) – Samuel Mirakian
& Associated Real Estate Management Co., owner - appeal resolved on 05/08/02
(Doc. A-24-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grand Avenue, 8100, (Ward 5) – Pavco, Inc., owner - appeal adopted on 05/08/02 (Doc. A-34-02)
Kinsman Road, 13921, (Ward 3) – Leroy Decembly dba M. D’s Coiffuer Boutique, owner
- appeal adopted on 05/08/02 (Doc. A-58-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landseer Road, 18219, (Ward 11) – Thomas Ungrady, Jr., owner - appeal adopted on 05/08/02
(Doc. A-59-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Laumar Avenue, 7917, (Ward 12) – Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, Inc., mortagee - extension
of time 05/08/02 (Doc. A-175-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oakview Avenue, 11703, (Ward 9) – Lewis G. Robinson, owner - appeal adopted on 05/08/02
(Doc. A-25-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sobieski Avenue, 12211, (Ward 19) – James Mason/ Joseph Lardner, owners - appeal resolved
on 05/08/02 (Doc. A-42-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 18521, (a.k.a. 18521-23 St. Clair Avenue), (Ward 11) – Andrew M. Hardy,
Jr., owner - appeal resolved on 05/08/02 (Doc. A-40-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 8701, (Ward 7) – Faez Muntaser, owner - appeal withdrawn on
05/08/02 (Doc. A-158-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sycamore Street, 2000, (Ward 13) – Jacobs Investment Management Co., Inc., owner - appeal
resolved on 05/08/02 (Doc. A-62-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 100th Street, 3231, (Ward 18) – Dan G. Palmer, owner - appeal adopted on 05/08/02
(Doc. A-55-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1526, (Ward 14) – Scott Pickering, owner - appeal resolved on 05/08/02
(Doc. A-38-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 3rd Street, 1215, (Ward 13) – Commissioners, Cuyahoga County of Ohio, owner - appeal
rescheduled to 05/22/02 on 05/08/02 (Doc. A-46-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1050

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1036
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1036
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1036
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1036
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1036
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1036
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1036
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1036
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1036
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1036
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1036

May 15, 2002

The City Record

65

West 50th Street, 3444, (Ward 17) – Martin L. Keefer, owner - appeal adopted on 05/08/02
(Doc. A-66-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037
West 9th Street, 1278, (Ward 13) – George Arquilla, III, owner - appeal resolved on
05/08/02 (Doc. A-68-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1036

Board of Control - Architecture Division
Digital document system - per Ord. 1198-2000 and 1263-01 - all bids rejected - Division
of Architecture, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 272-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031

Board of Control - Archmere Park
Archmere Park tennis court improvements - contract per Ord. 1605-98 to F.
Buddie Contracting, Ltd. - Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of
Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 278-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

Board of Control - Brookside Park
Concession stands at Brookside and Gordon Parks - contract per Ord. 224-01 to Innovative
Foods, Inc. - Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 279-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

Board of Control - Cleveland Cultural Gardens
Cultural Gardens Park station site improvements - per Ord. 1605-98 - all bids rejected
- Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 280-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

Board of Control - Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Environmental services for disposition of soils - approve subcontractor - Contract #58555
- BOC Res. 714-01 - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of
Port Control (BOC Res. 273-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031

Board of Control - Cleveland Memorial Gardens
Cleveland Memorial Gardens roadway expansion - per Ord. 1404-2000 - all bids rejected Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 277-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

Board of Control - Community Development Department
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. - various parcels (Ward 5) per Ord. 413-02
(BOC Res. 282-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. - various parcels (Ward 5) per Ord. 414-02
(BOC Res. 283-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033

Board of Control - Concession Agreement
Concession stands at Brookside and Gordon Parks - contract per Ord. 224-01 to Innovative
Foods, Inc. - Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 279-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

Board of Control - Finance Department
Towel and linen service - contract per Ord. 340-02 to Domestic Linen Supply Co., Inc. Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 271-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031

Board of Control - Gordon Park
Concession stands at Brookside and Gordon Parks - contract per Ord. 224-01 to Innovative
Foods, Inc. - Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 279-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. - various parcels (Ward 5) per Ord. 413-02
(BOC Res. 282-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. - various parcels (Ward 5) per Ord. 414-02
(BOC Res. 283-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033

1051

The City Record

66

May 15, 2002

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 5)
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. - various parcels (Ward 5) per Ord. 413-02
(BOC Res. 282-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Board of Control - Morganic Gardens
Morganic Gardens site improvements - contract per Ord. 1605-98 and 1728-2000 to R.
J. Platten Contracting Co. - Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 281-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Board of Control - Park Maintenance and Properties Division
Concession stands at Brookside and Gordon Parks - contract per Ord. 224-01 to Innovative
Foods, Inc. - Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 279-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Board of Control - Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Archmere Park tennis court improvements - contract per Ord. 1605-98 to F.
Buddie Contracting, Ltd. - Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of
Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 278-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Memorial Gardens roadway expansion - per Ord. 1404-2000 - all bids rejected Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 277-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Concession stands at Brookside and Gordon Parks - contract per Ord. 224-01 to Innovative
Foods, Inc. - Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 279-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cultural Gardens Park station site improvements - per Ord. 1605-98 - all bids rejected
- Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 280-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morganic Gardens site improvements - contract per Ord. 1605-98 and 1728-2000 to R.
J. Platten Contracting Co. - Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 281-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

Board of Control - Port Control Department
Environmental services for disposition of soils - approve subcontractor - Contract #58555
- BOC Res. 714-01 - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of
Port Control (BOC Res. 273-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Board of Control - Professional Service Contracts
Environmental services for disposition of soils - approve subcontractor - Contract #58555
- BOC Res. 714-01 - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of
Port Control (BOC Res. 273-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Board of Control - Public Improvement Contracts
Archmere Park tennis court improvements - contract per Ord. 1605-98 to F.
Buddie Contracting, Ltd. - Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of
Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 278-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
District service centers improvements - contract per Ord. 2204-2000 and 410-02 to
Envirocom Construction Company, Inc. - Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 276-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Morganic Gardens site improvements - contract per Ord. 1605-98 and 1728-2000 to R.
J. Platten Contracting Co. - Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 281-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Board of Control - Public Service Department
Asphalt concrete - contract per Ord. 351-02 to Kenmore Construction Co., Inc. - Division
of Streets, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 274-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Digital document system - per Ord. 1198-2000 and 1263-01 - all bids rejected - Division
of Architecture, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 272-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
District service centers improvements - contract per Ord. 2204-2000 and 410-02 to
Envirocom Construction Company, Inc. - Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 276-02)
Traffic sign posts - amend BOC Res. 260-02 - Division of Traffic Engineering, Dept. of
Public Service (BOC Res. 275-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

Board of Control - Requirement Contracts
Asphalt concrete - contract per Ord. 351-02 to Kenmore Construction Co., Inc. - Division
of Streets, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 274-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031

1052

May 15, 2002

The City Record

67

Towel and linen service - contract per Ord. 340-02 to Domestic Linen Supply Co., Inc. Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 271-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Traffic sign posts - amend BOC Res. 260-02 - Division of Traffic Engineering, Dept. of
Public Service (BOC Res. 275-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

Board of Control - Research, Planning and Development Division
Archmere Park tennis court improvements - contract per Ord. 1605-98 to F.
Buddie Contracting, Ltd. - Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of
Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 278-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Morganic Gardens site improvements - contract per Ord. 1605-98 and 1728-2000 to R.
J. Platten Contracting Co. - Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 281-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

Board of Control - Streets Division
Asphalt concrete - contract per Ord. 351-02 to Kenmore Construction Co., Inc. - Division
of Streets, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 274-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031

Board of Control - Traffic Engineering Division
Traffic sign posts - amend BOC Res. 260-02 - Division of Traffic Engineering, Dept. of
Public Service (BOC Res. 275-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

Board of Education
Oliver H. Perry Elementary School — urging to reconsider proposed closure — Margaret
Spellacy Middle School — consider conversion to K-8 School (R 869-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1039
William Cullen Bryant Elementary School — evaluate closures (R 954-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021

Board of Zoning Appeals - Report
Bridge Avenue, 2602, (Ward 13) – Hallie Incorporated, owners c/o Miriam Colen, agent appeal granted and adopted on 05/13/02 (Cal. 02-69) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
East 152nd Street, 395, (Ward 11) – Stark Group, owners c/o Sharon Stark, and Tonya
Martin, tenant - appeal reinstated on 05/13/02 (Cal. 02-28) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
East 65th Street, 3593-3609, (Units 1-4), (Ward 12) – Broadway Area Housing and Slavic
Village Development Corporation, owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent - appeal heard
on 05/13/02 (Cal. 02-83) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
East 65th Street, 3593-3609, (Units 5-8), (Ward 12) – Broadway Area Housing and Slavic
Village Development Corporation, owners c/o Matthew Solomon, agent - appeal heard
on 05/13/02 (Cal. 02-84) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
Lorain Avenue, 15725, (Ward 21) – Seven Seas, owner c/o Bob Dudik, agent appeal granted
and adopted on 05/13/02 (Cal. 02-72). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
Pearl Road, 5021, (Ward 16) – Don Petruzzi, d.b.a. Don’s Chevrolet, owner - appeal heard
on 05/13/02 (Cal. 02-74) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
Rocky River Drive, 3430, (Ward 21) – Congregation of St. Joseph, owner c/o Mary Schrader,
agent - appeal postponed to 06/03/02 on 05/13/02 (Cal. 02-100) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
St. Clair Avenue, 6202, (Ward 13) – McGregor Development, owners c/o Timothy Evans, agent
- appeal heard on 05/13/02 (Cal. 02-76) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
Superior Avenue, 3620, (Ward 13) – Judy Chin, owner - appeal postponed to 06/03/02
on 05/13/02 (Cal. 02-78) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
Union Avenue, 13511, (Ward 3) – Burger King Corporation, owner, and Hugh Kidd, Mt.
Pleasant Development Corporation c/o Chris Auvil, agent - appeal heard on 05/13/02
(Cal. 02-77) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
West 26th Street, 1826, (Ward 13) – Hallie Incorporated, owners c/o Miriam Colen, agent
- appeal granted and adopted on 05/13/02 (Cal. 02-67). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
West 26th Street, 1830, (Ward 13) – Hallie Incorporated, owner c/o Miriam Colen, agent
- appeal granted and adopted on 05/13/02 (Cal. 02-68). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
West 28th Street, 2141, (Ward 14) – Bruce Hedderson, owner - appeal heard on
05/13/02 (Cal. 02-44) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
West 28th Street, 2149, (Ward 14) – Bruce Hedderson, owner - appeal heard on
05/13/02 (Cal. 02-45) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
West 44th street, 1866, (Ward 13) – D. Celeste, owner - appeal postponed to 05/28/02 on
05/13/02 (Cal. 02-75) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035
West 63rd Street, 3311, (Ward 17) – Antonio Millett, owner - appeal granted and adopted
on 05/13/02 (Cal. 02-22) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1035

1053

The City Record

68

May 15, 2002

Board of Zoning Appeals - Schedule
Bangor Avenue, 5918, (Ward 12) – Leo Aukerman, owner - appeal to be heard on
05/28/02 (Cal. 02-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gertrude Avenue, 6412-24, (Lot 1), (Ward 12) – Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent - appeal to be heard on 05/28/02 (Cal. 02-88). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gertrude Avenue, 6412-24, (Lot 2), (Ward 12) – Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent - appeal to be heard on 05/28/02 (Cal. 02-89). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gertrude Avenue, 6412-24, (Lot 3), (Ward 12) – Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent - appeal to be heard on 05/28/02 (Cal. 02-90). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gertrude Avenue, 6412-24, (Lot 4), (Ward 12) – Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent - appeal to be heard on 05/28/02 (Cal. 02-91). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gertrude Avenue, 6412-24, (Lot 5), (Ward 12) – Braodway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent - appeal to be heard on 05/28/02 (Cal. 02-92). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gertrude Avenue, 6412-24, (Lot 6), (Ward 12) – Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent - appeal to be heard on 05/28/02 (Cal. 02-93). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gertrude Avenue, 6412-24, (Lot 7), (Ward 12) – Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent - appeal to be heard on 05/28/02 (Cal. 02-94). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gertrude Avenue, 6412-24, (Lot 8), (Ward 12) – Broadway Area Homes, owner c/o
Matthew Solomon, agent - appeal to be heard on 05/28/02 (Cal. 02-95). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 13437-39, (Ward 20) – L. Friedman, owner, and Robert and
Maryland Gonzalez, tenants - appeal to be heard on 05/28/02 (Cal. 02-96) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 3500, (Ward 14) – 3500 LTD, owners c/o John Wilbur of Ohio City Near West
- appeal to be heard on 05/28/02 (Cal. 02-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Silsby Road, 3884, (Ward 21) – Michalyn and Lawrence Blasius, owners - appeal to be heard
on 05/28/02 (Cal. 02-79) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 6502, (Ward 13) – John Dunlop, owner, and Richard Shurney, lessee
- appeal to be heard on 05/28/02 (Cal. 02-102) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034

Bounty Hunters
Bounty hunters — repeal Code Sec. 687.01 to 687.17 — Bail enforcement agents,
registration — new Code Sec’s 687A.01 to 687A.07 (O 2032-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1041
Buckeye Area Development Corporation
Buckeye Rd., 11801-11 — Loan and grant agreement (O 934-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
Buckeye Rd., 11801-11 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — ten year sixty percent abatement
(O 935-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
Burke Lakefront Airport
AirSports Aviation Ltd. — lease (O 123-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Wildlife hazards to aircraft — reduce — U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service and Wildlife Services (O 531-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
City of Cleveland Bids
Autosampler to varian gas chromatograph mass spectrometer - Department of
Public Utilities - Division of Water - per C.O. Sec. 129.28 - bid due June 27,
2002(advertised 5/15/2002 and 5/22/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Binoculars, night vision - Department of Public Safety - Division of Police - per Ord.
497-01 - bid due June 6, 2002(advertised 5/15/2002 and 5/22/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Camera system for district jail booking and prison unit booking - Department of Public
Safety - Division of Police - per Ord. 497-01 - bid due May 23, 2002(advertised 5/8/2002 and 5/15/2002) . . . . . . 1038
Fence installation / repair - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Cleveland
Public Power - per Ord. 2358-01 - bid due June 5, 2002(advertised 5/15/2002 and 5/22/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Flashers, safety lights, arrow bars and traffic control devices, rental / purchase
- Department of Public Utilities - per Ord. 1160-01 - bid due June 7, 2002(advertised
5/15/2002 and 5/22/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Messenger services - Department of Finance - per Ord. 341-02 - bid due May 17,
2002(advertised 5/8/2002 and 5/15/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Motor unit (1750 hp synchronous) repair at Fairmount Pump Station - Department of Public
Utilities - Division of Water - per Ord. 2352-01 - bid due June 12, 2002(advertised 5/15/2002 and 5/22/2002) . . 1038
Painting and paint removal on roadways, runways - Department of Port Control - per Ord.
128-02 - bid due June 5, 2002(advertised 5/15/2002 and 5/22/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Roof repair / replace - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Water per Ord. 1147-01 - bid due June 14, 2002(advertised 5/15/2002 and 5/22/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Service fittings - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Water per C.O. Sec. 129.25 - bid due June 5, 2002(advertised 5/15/2002 and 5/22/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038

1054

May 15, 2002

The City Record

69

City Planning Commission
Lorain Ave., north and south — change zoning (O 417-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037
Overlook Ave. west side, Carlton Rd. north — change zoning (O 943-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017
Peddlers and produce dealers — enact Sect. 675A.01 to 675A.11 and 675A.99 — amend Sec.
675.01 (O 926-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
W. 54th St. & Herman Ave. Rd. southeast and southwest corners — change the zoning
(O 944-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017-1037
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI)
Brookpark Road relocation project — easement— Chase Manhattan Trust Company —
successor trustee (O 215-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Cargo facility — operation — Lease By Way of Concession — American Airlines, Inc
(O 348-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Cargo facility — operation — Lease By Way of Concession — Global Ground Services, Inc.
(O 350-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Director’s Advisory Council — Memorandum of Understanding — Continental Airlines, Inc.
(O 901-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 991
Fire and security systems — upgrade — SimplexGrinnell (O 676-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1030
Ground service equipment service facility — operation — Lease By Way of Concession —
American Airlines, Inc. (O 349-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Rytheon Systems Company — runway monitor (O 724-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1030
Wetland and stream mitigation programs — amend title & Section 1 of Ordinance No.
1013-01 (O 278-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Wildlife hazards to aircraft — reduce — U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service and Wildlife Services (O 531-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Cleveland Housing Network
Browning, 11720 & 12006 Mt. Overlook — Land Reutilization Program (O 927-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Low income housing units — contracts (O 930-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Cleveland Municipal Court
Parking infraction tickets and collection of fines — processing — Contract No. 57031
with Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (O 367-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Cleveland Public Theater
Acquisition of property — Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 866-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority
Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority Board of Directors Meetings — minutes
(F 875-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989

Codified Ordinances
Bounty hunters — repeal Code Sec. 687.01 to 687.17 — Bail enforcement agents,
registration — new Code Sec’s 687A.01 to 687A.07 (O 2032-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1041
Drug-related activities — new Sec. 607.19 (O 925-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Food shops & handlers — repeal Code sects. — 241.01 to 241.40 & 241.99; Food shops —
new Code Sects. 241.01 to 241.35 & 241.99; Frozen desserts — repeal Code Sects.
245.01 to 245.12 — Public Health Dept. (O 2163-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022-1025
Parking lots — employ professional parking lot operators — amend Section 133.331 —
parking fees — Community Development surface lots (O 637-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1030
Peddlers and produce dealers — enact Sect. 675A.01 to 675A.11 and 675A.99 — amend Sec.
675.01 (O 926-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Prostitution — new Section 619.11 (O 924-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1002
Residential code — one, two & three family dwellings — amend, repeal, rename,
supplement & enact new Code Sections (O 2370-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Tattooing and body piercing — amend Sec. 343.11 & 347.12 — repeal Sec. 225.07
(O 737-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037
Water — penalty for using without permission — amend Section 535.37 (O 537-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Weapons and explosives — definition — amend Code Sec. 627.01 — Public Safety Dept.
(O 2031-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1040

1055

The City Record

70

May 15, 2002

Communications
Building Standards and Building Appears, Public Hearing Agenda — Wednesday, May 8, 2002
(F 877-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
City of Broadview Heights — copy of Resolution No. 02-34 (F 874-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority Board of Directors Meetings — minutes
(F 875-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Financial Agreements — The Richard E. Jacobs Group, Inc. (F 873-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Governor Bob Taft’s Office — confirmation receipt of Resolution No. 610-02
(F 872-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Nottingham Rd., 18122 — Objection to Assessment Notice (F 876-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Throckley Street Club — re: new voting location — (Ward 1) (F 878-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Community Development
Browning, 11720 & 12006 Mt. Overlook — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing
Network, Inc. (O 927-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Cedar and Central (between) — along E. 40th & E. 43rd Sts. — Land Reutilization Program
— Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 933-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Cleveland Action to Support Housing (CASH) — housing — loan programs — contracts
(O 931-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Cleveland Public Theatre — acquisition of property — Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 866-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Commercial building — acquisition and renovation — amend title & Section 1 of Ord. No.
221-01 — Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 415-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
Cudell Improvement, Inc — Neighborhood Safety and Support Services Program — Ward 18
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 865-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Cuyahoga Community College Foundation — Ward 5 Community Leadership Development Academy
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 863-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
E. 57th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
(O 932-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Goodrich-Gannet Neighborhood Center — Community Safety Program — Ward 13 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 857-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
JAMAA Knights Youth Association — Football for Youth Program — Ward 10 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 947-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Low income housing units — contracts — Cleveland Housing Network (O 930-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
N-Joy Life Group — Youth 2 Youth Program — Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 949-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Parking lots — employ professional parking lot operators — amend Section 133.331 —
parking fees — Community Development surface lots (O 637-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1030
Social services agencies, community development — enter into or amend — contracts —
memorandums of understandings — expend funds (O 929-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Spanish American Committee — Three Kings Day — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 861-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — grant (O 475-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Year XXVIII Community Development Block Grant — various public improvements — Dirs.
of Comm. Dev., Pub. Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Pub. Utilities
(O 928-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006

Community Development Block Grant Program
Year XXVIII Community Development Block Grant — various public improvements — Dirs.
of Comm. Dev., Pub. Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Pub. Utilities
(O 928-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006

Condolences
Gedson, Lottie Mae (R 889-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
McCarthy, Marge (R 888-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Medley, Steven (R 890-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Wauch, Judith (R 891-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990

Congratulations
Berts, Doreen (Mrs.) (R 894-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Carrington, Patricia (Mrs.) (R 893-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Don’s Lighthouse Restaurant — (30th Anniversary) (R 892-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Kimbrough, Clifford L., Jr. (Bishop) (R 896-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Wilson, Julia (Mrs.) (R 895-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990

1056

May 15, 2002

The City Record

71

Contracts
Cleveland Action to Support Housing (CASH) — housing — loan programs — Community
Development (O 931-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Host International — rent credits — Port Control Dept. (O 2021-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022-1025
ISG Cleveland, Inc. — improvement — company’s plant — Economic Development
(O 938-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015
Low income housing units — contracts — Cleveland Housing Network (O 930-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Association Local 404 — contract
— site improvement — 1417 E. 25th St. (O 936-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
Social services agencies, community development — enter into or amend — memorandums
of understandings — expend funds — Department of Community Development (O 929-02) . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Correction Division
Garage space — license agreement — County of Cuyahoga (O 923-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1002
Cuyahoga County
Garage space — license agreement — Division of House of Corrections (O 923-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1002
Ridge Road — repair and resurfacing — amend Ord. No. 294-98 (O 914-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners
Cuyahoga County Commissioners Clean Ohio Revitalization — support — grant application
(R 547-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Cuyahoga County Drug Abuse Services
2002-03 Center Point/Student Assistance/Drug Prevention Program — grant — Alcohol and
Drug Addiction Services Board of Cuyahoga County (O 769-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Easements
Brookpark Road relocation project — Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — Chase
Manhattan Trust Company — successor trustee (O 215-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Economic Development Department
Buckeye Area Dev. Corp. — loan and grant agreement — 11801-11 Buckeye
Rd (O 934-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
Buckeye Area Dev. Corp. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 11801-11 Buckeye Rd. — ten year
sixty percent abatement (O 935-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
E. 152nd St. & Ivanhoe Rd. — brownfield remediation project — grant — Clean Ohio
Program — contract with Second Growth Institute (O 686-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Hemisphere Industrial Park — brownfield remediation project — grant — State of Ohio,
Clean Ohio Program (O 602-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Huth, Greg — Acting Director of Economic Development — oath of office (F 887-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
ISG Cleveland, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — seventy-five percent abatement —
resume steelmaking operations (O 939-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015
ISG Cleveland, Inc. — grant agreement — Greater Cleveland Growth Association — Foreign
Trade Zone (O 937-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015
ISG Cleveland, Inc. — improvement — company’s plant (O 938-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015
Merrick House for the Clark Fulton Consolidation Project — amend Sec. 2 of Ord. 2419-01
— Ward 13, 14, 15 and 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 860-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
MidTown Technology Center — brownfield remediation project — grant — State of Ohio,
Clean Ohio Program (O 603-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc. — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan
— Economic Development Initiative Grant — redevelop — various properties
(O 1982-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Association Local 404 — contract
— site improvement — 1417 E. 25th St. (O 936-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
Saltzman H-Realty Co., Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement
— amend Ord. No. 2038-01 (O 940-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016
Vocational Guidance Services — E. 55th St. & Longfellow Ave. — new building — 2239
E. 55th St. — building improvements — amend Ord. No. 709-01 (O 600-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Empowerment Zone
Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services, Inc. — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan
— Economic Development Initiative Grant — redevelop — various properties
— Economic Development Dept. (O 1982-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Vocational Guidance Services — E. 55th St. & Longfellow Ave. — new building — 2239
E. 55th St. — building improvements — amend Ord. No. 709-01 (O 600-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024

1057

The City Record

72

May 15, 2002

Enterprise Zone Agreement
ISG Cleveland, Inc. — seventy-five percent abatement
(O 939-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saltzman H-Realty Co., Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket,
(O 940-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

— resume steelmaking operations
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015
Inc. — amend Ord. No. 2038-01
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016

Environmental Protection Agency
Water Security Grant — grant (O 759-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Fees
Parking lots — employ professional parking lot operators — amend Section 133.331 —
parking fees — Community Development surface lots (O 637-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1030
Finance Department
American Express — agreement — accounts payable recovery service (O 898-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Concrete — ready mix — Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 343-02 (O 722-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
MITIS software — purchase — Sybase, Inc. — Division of Taxation (O 723-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1030
Parking infraction tickets and collection of fines — processing — Cleveland Municipal
Court — Contract No. 57031 with Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (O 367-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Fire Division
Overhead doors — repair (O 594-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022-1029
Funds
2003 Workforce Investment Act Programs — allocations of grants — State of Ohio
Department of Jobs and Family Services — Workforce Investment Act, Title I
(O 853-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1031
Grants
2002-03 Center Point/Student Assistance/Drug Prevention Program — grant — Alcohol and
Drug Addiction Services Board of Cuyahoga County (O 769-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
2003 Workforce Investment Act Programs — allocations of grants — State of Ohio
Department of Jobs and Family Services — Workforce Investment Act, Title I
(O 853-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1031
E. 152nd St. & Ivanhoe Rd. — brownfield remediation project — Clean Ohio Program —
contract with Second Growth Institute (O 686-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Hemisphere Industrial Park — brownfield remediation project — State of Ohio, Clean Ohio
Program — Economic Development (O 602-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Kinsman Road — public improvement — Ohio Department of Transportation — Public Service
(O 482-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
MidTown Technology Center — brownfield remediation project — State of Ohio, Clean Ohio
Program — Economic Development (O 603-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — Director of Community Development
(O 475-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Water Security Grant — U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (O 759-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Greater Cleveland Growth Association
ISG Cleveland, Inc. — grant agreement — Foreign Trade Zone (O 937-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015
Health Department
2002-03 Center Point/Student Assistance/Drug Prevention Program — grant — Alcohol and
Drug Addiction Services Board of Cuyahoga County (O 769-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Burials for indigent dead — Division of Health (O 680-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Food shops & handlers — repeal Code sects. — 241.01 to 241.40 & 241.99; Food shops —
new Code Sects. 241.01 to 241.35 & 241.99; Frozen desserts — repeal Code Sects.
245.01 to 245.12 — Public Health Dept. (O 2163-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022-1025
Garage space — license agreement — County of Cuyahoga — Division of House
of Corrections (O 923-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1002
Mercantile Rd., 23600 — lease — Mercantile Associates — store goods — Cleveland House
of Corrections (O 768-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Mosquitoes — ground applications — Division of Environment (O 593-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024

1058

May 15, 2002

The City Record

73

Peddlers and produce dealers — enact Sect. 675A.01 to 675A.11 and 675A.99 — amend Sec.
675.01 (O 926-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Tattooing and body piercing — amend Sec. 343.11 & 347.12 — repeal Sec. 225.07
(O 737-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037

Home Weatherization Program
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — grant — Director of Community
Development (O 475-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046

House of Corrections
Mercantile Rd., 23600 — lease — Mercantile Associates — store goods (O 768-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025

Housing
Residential code — one, two & three family dwellings — amend, repeal, rename,
supplement & enact new Code Sections (O 2370-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024

Land Reutilization Program
Browning, 11720 & 12006 Mt. Overlook — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. (O 927-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Cedar and Central (between) — along E. 40th & E. 43rd Sts. — Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc. (O 933-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
E. 46th and E. 70th Streets — between Cedar and Central — Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc. (O 414-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1043
E. 57th St. — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 932-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
East 61st & 59th Streets — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 413-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1042
Franklin Blvd., 4114 — David A. Lechner and Diane K. Lechner (O 221-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Walton Ave., 3512 — AFFORD (O 282-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1042

Landmark Commission
Cleveland Christian Home for Children — designate — Cleveland landmark (O 942-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016

Lease by Way of Concession
AirSports Aviation Ltd. — lease — Burke Lakefront Airport — Port Control Dept.
(O 123-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Cargo facility — operation — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — American
Airlines, Inc (O 348-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Cargo facility — operation — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — Global Ground
Services, Inc. (O 350-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Ground service equipment service facility — operation — Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport — American Airlines, Inc. (O 349-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024

Liquor Permits
Addison Rd., 1199 — objection (Ward 7) (R 953-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Cedar Rd., 7904 — transfer (Ward 6) (F 885-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Dove Ave., 10808 — objection — withdraw (Ward 2) (R 957-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
E. 79th St., 1930 — objection — withdraw (Ward 6) (R 951-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
E. 93rd St., 863-71 — objection — withdraw (Ward 8) (R 955-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Elm St., 2325 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 882-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Euclid Ave., 1505, Ste 115 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 886-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Fleet Ave., 4909 — objection (Ward 12) (R 870-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1039
Holmes Ave., 15638 — objection (Ward 11) (R 956-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Lakeside Ave., 2000 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 881-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Lorain Ave., 12029 — objection (Ward 19) (R 867-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Superior Ave., 11230-43 — objection (Ward 9) (R 952-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
W. 56th St., 3355-57 — transfer (Ward 17) (F 884-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
W. 9th St., 1299 — new (Ward 13) (F 879-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
W. 9th St., 1299 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 883-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Western Ave., 10511 — transfer (Ward 18) (F 880-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989

Mayor’s Appointment Committee
Committee Members (F 958-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025

1059

The City Record

74

May 15, 2002

Memoranda of Understanding
Director’s Advisory Council at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — Continental
Airlines, Inc. (O 901-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 991
Social services agencies, community development — enter into or amend — contracts —
memorandums of understandings — expend funds — Department of Community Development
(O 929-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division (MVM)
Automotive and truck oils — purchase (O 908-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cab and chassis unit — purchase — The McLean Company (O
Cushman-Ransome equipment parts — purchase (O 912-02) . . . .
Equipment and vehicle batteries — purchase (O 916-02) . . . . . . .
Ford tractor mowers — purchase (O 915-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Generators — maintain (O 919-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International truck parts — purchase (O 911-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meyer snow plow and spreader parts, — purchase (O 910-02) . .
Mowers and cutting equipment — purchase (O 918-02). . . . . . . . .
New tires — purchase (O 917-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tire repair road service — purchase (O 913-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Towing services — purchase (O 909-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.......
907-02)
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 997
. 997
. 999
1000
1000
1001
. 998
. 998
1001
1000
. 999
. 998

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Cleveland Public Theatre — acquisition of property — Ward 17 (O 866-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Commercial building — acquisition and renovation — amend title & Section 1 of Ord. No.
221-01 — Ward 8 (O 415-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cudell Improvement, Inc — Neighborhood Safety and Support Services Program — Ward 18
(O 865-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga Community College Foundation — Ward 5 Community Leadership Development Academy
(O 863-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Goodrich-Gannet Neighborhood Center — Community Safety Program — Ward
13 (O 857-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Halloran Park — public improvements — amend Sec. 3 of Ord. No. 1490-2000 — Ward 19
(O 856-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
JAMAA Knights Youth Association — Football for Youth Program — Ward 10 (O 947-02) . . . . . . . . .
Merrick House for the Clark Fulton Consolidation Project — amend Sec. 2 of Ord. 2419-01
— Ward 13, 14, 15 and 18 (O 860-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
N-Joy Life Group — Youth 2 Youth Program — Community Development — Ward 2
(O 949-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spanish American Committee — Three Kings Day — Ward 14 (O 861-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . 1049
. . . . 1045
. . . . 1049
. . . . 1049
. . . . 1048
. . . . 1047
. . . . 1019
. . . . 1048
. . . . 1019
. . . . 1048

Nottingham Water Treatment Plant
Nottingham Chemical Project — amend title of Ord. No. 2367-01 — adding new Sec. 4, 5
and 6 — renumber existing Sec. 4 to new Sec. 7 (O 758-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Oath of Office
Huth, Greg — Acting Director of Economic Development (F 887-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Nottingham Chemical Project — amend title of Ord. No. 2367-01 — adding new Sec. 4, 5
and 6 — renumber existing Sec. 4 to new Sec. 7 (O 758-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Parking
Parking lots — employ professional parking lot operators — amend Section 133.331 —
parking fees — Community Development surface lots (O 637-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1030
Parks
Raymond Bozak Field — change name of Ball Diamond #2 (O 864-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Halloran Park — public improvements — amend Sec. 3 of Ord. No. 1490-2000 — Ward 19
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 856-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047

1060

May 15, 2002

The City Record

75

Parking lots — employ professional parking lot operators — amend Section 133.331 —
parking fees — Community Development surface lots (O 637-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1030
Year XXVIII Community Development Block Grant — various public improvements — Dirs.
of Comm. Dev., Pub. Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Pub. Utilities
(O 928-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006

Permits
12th Annual Miles Standish Miler Fun Run — Miles Standish Elementary School
(O 948-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
American Heart Walk — American Heart Association (O 858-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Clean Air Challenge (Race) — American Lung Association (O 859-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048

Personnel Department
2003 Workforce Investment Act Programs — allocations of grants — State of Ohio
Department of Jobs and Family Services — Workforce Investment Act, Title I
(O 853-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1031
COBRA program — administer — Ceridian Benefits Services (O 730-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1031
Workers’ compensation actuarial — auditing services — Integrated Consultant Services,
Ltd. (O 731-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1031

Port Control Department
Air handling units — filters — purchase — various divisions (O 592-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022-1029
AirSports Aviation Ltd. — lease — Burke Lakefront Airport (O 123-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Boilers — repair — various divisions (O 941-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016
Brookpark Road relocation project — easement — Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company
— Chase Manhattan Trust Company — successor trustee (O 215-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Cargo facility — operation — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — Lease By Way
of Concession — American Airlines, Inc (O 348-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Cargo facility — operation — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — Lease By Way
of Concession — Global Ground Services, Inc. (O 350-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Director’s Advisory Council at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — Memorandum of
Understanding — Continental Airlines, Inc. (O 901-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 991
Fire and security systems — upgrade — SimplexGrinnell — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 676-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1030
Fiscal Year 2002 — vendors and concessionaires — various divisions (O 590-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022-1029
Gate operating devices — purchase — maintain existing — various divisions
(O 589-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022-1029
Ground service equipment service facility — operation — Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport — Lease By Way of Concession — American Airlines, Inc. (O 349-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Host International — rent credits — Port Control Dept. (O 2021-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022-1025
Oil/water separators, sewers, electrical vaults — clean and maintain (O 533-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Oil/water separators, sewers, electrical vaults — disposal of waste materials — amend
Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 328-2000 (O 532-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Rytheon Systems Company — runway monitor — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 724-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1030
Surveyors — parcels (O 900-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Wetland and stream mitigation programs — amend title & Section 1 of Ordinance No.
1013-01 (O 278-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Wildlife hazards to aircraft — reduce — U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service and Wildlife Services (O 531-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Work uniforms — purchase — various divisions (O 591-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022-1029

Public Hearings (Notices)
Lorain Ave., north and south — change zoning (O 417-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037
Tattooing and body piercing — amend Sec. 343.11 & 347.12 — repeal Sec. 225.07
(O 737-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037
W. 54th St. & Herman Ave. Rd. southeast and southwest corners — change the zoning
(O 944-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017-1037

Purchases and Supplies Division
E. 133rd St., 732 — — sell City-owned property — Sunrise Development Company (Ward
10) (O 903-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 995

1061

The City Record

76

May 15, 2002

Residential Certificate of Occupancy
Residential code — one, two & three family dwellings — amend, repeal, rename,
supplement & enact new Code Sections (O 2370-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Resolutions - Miscellaneous
Check cashing businesses — condemning — charging high fees (R 871-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Teacher Appreciation Day — urging to establish (R 868-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County Commissioners Clean Ohio Revitalization — support — grant application
(R 547-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oliver H. Perry Elementary School — urging to reconsider proposed closure — Board of
Education — Margaret Spellacy Middle School — consider conversion to K-8 School
(R 869-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
William Cullen Bryant Elementary School — evaluate closures — Cleveland Board of
Education (R 954-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1040
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1039
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1038

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1039
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1021

Safety Department
Bounty hunters — repeal Code Sec. 687.01 to 687.17 — Bail enforcement agents,
registration — new Code Sec’s 687A.01 to 687A.07 (O 2032-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1041
Drug-related activities — new Sec. 607.19 (O 925-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Overhead doors — repair — Division of Fire (O 594-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022-1029
Peddlers and produce dealers — enact Sect. 675A.01 to 675A.11 and 675A.99 — amend Sec.
675.01 (O 926-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Prostitution — new Section 619.11 (O 924-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1002
Weapons and explosives — definition — amend Code Sec. 627.01 (O 2031-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1040
Service Department
Automotive and truck oils — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 908-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 997
Cab and chassis unit — purchase — The McLean Company (O 907-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 997
Cushman-Ransome equipment parts — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 912-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
E. 133rd St., 732 — — sell City-owned property — Sunrise Development Company (Ward
10) (O 903-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 995
Equipment and vehicle batteries — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 916-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation — 19-location identification banners
(O 945-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
Ford tractor mowers — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 915-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Generators — maintain — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 919-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1001
International truck parts — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 911-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 998
Kinsman Road — public improvement — Ohio Department of Transportation — grant
(O 482-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Memphis Ave. — rehabilitation — amend Ord. No. 2368-92 (O 906-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 996
Meyer snow plow and spreader parts, — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 910-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 998
Mowers and cutting equipment — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 918-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1001
New tires — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 917-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Oliver Road S.W. — intention to vacate (Ward 19) (R 230-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Parade the Circle Celebration — banners — University Circle Incorporated
(O 946-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Ridge Road — repair and resurfacing — amend Ord. No. 294-98 (O 914-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Sagrada Familia — Church Festival (O 950-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Scenic Byways trail and overlook construction project — payment (O 922-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1002
Surveyors — various capital projects (O 920-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1001
Tire repair road service — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 913-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Towing services — purchase — Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 909-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 998
Traffic signals equipment — purchase — Division of Traffic Engineering (O 921-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1002
Traffic signals, poles, controllers, sign blanks, reflective sheeting — amend title &
Sec. 1 of Ord. No. 2082-01 (O 409-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1042
Western Ave. — public improvement — Public Service (O 481-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Year XXVIII Community Development Block Grant — various public improvements — Dirs.
of Comm. Dev., Pub. Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Pub. Utilities
(O 928-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006

1062

May 15, 2002

The City Record

77

Sewers
Westpark Rd. & Lydian Ave. — sewers rehabilitation — amend Ord. No. 1000-2000
(O 588-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Spanish American Committee
Three Kings Day — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 861-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Street Vacation
Industrial Parkway S.W. (Ward 20) (O 905-02). . . . . .
Oliver Road S.W. — intention (Ward 19) (R 230-02) .
Velma Ave. S.E. vacate (Ward 1) (O 904-02) . . . . . . . .
W. 7th Pl. (Ward 13) (O 902-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 996
1025
. 995
. 995

Tax Abatement
Buckeye Area Dev. Corp. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 11801-11 Buckeye Rd. — ten year
sixty percent abatement (O 935-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
ISG Cleveland, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — seventy-five percent abatement —
resume steelmaking operations (O 939-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015
Saltzman H-Realty Co., Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement
— amend Ord. No. 2038-01 (O 940-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016
Taxation Division
MITIS software — purchase — Sybase, Inc. (O 723-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023-1030
Traffic Engineering & Parking Division
Traffic signals equipment — purchase (O 921-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1002
Traffic signals, poles, controllers, sign blanks, reflective sheeting — amend title &
Sec. 1 of Ord. No. 2082-01 (O 409-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1042
University Circle
Parade the Circle Celebration — banners — University Circle Incorporated
(O 862-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Utilities Department
Nottingham Chemical Project — amend title of Ord. No. 2367-01 — adding new Sec. 4, 5
and 6 — renumber existing Sec. 4 to new Sec. 7 (O 758-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trac-vac residuals collection system — purchase — Division of Water (O 899-02) . . . . . . . . . . .
Water — penalty for using without permission — amend Section 535.37 (O 537-01). . . . . . . . . .
Water Security Grant — grant — U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (O 759-02) . . . . . . . . .
Westpark Rd. & Lydian Ave. — sewers rehabilitation — amend Ord. No. 1000-2000
(O 588-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Year XXVIII Community Development Block Grant — various public improvements — Dirs.
of Comm. Dev., Pub. Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties, and Pub. Utilities
(O 928-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1024
. 990
1023
1025

. . . . . . . . . . . 1024

. . . . . . . . . . . 1006

Vocational Guidance Services
E. 55th St. & Longfellow Ave. — new building — 2239 E. 55th St. — building
improvements — amend Ord. No. 709-01 (O 600-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Ward 01
Velma Ave. S.E. — vacate (O 904-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 995
Wesson, Herb J., Jr. — welcome (R 897-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Ward 02
Dove Ave., 10808 — objection — withdraw (R 957-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Gedson, Lottie Mae — condolence (R 889-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
N-Joy Life Group — Youth 2 Youth Program — Community Development — Ward 2 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 949-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Wauch, Judith — condolence (R 891-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990

1063

The City Record

78

May 15, 2002

Ward 03
Kimbrough, Clifford L., Jr. (Bishop) — congratulation (R 896-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Kinsman Road — public improvement — Ohio Department of Transportation — grant
— Public Service (O 482-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Ward 05
Cedar and Central (between) — along E. 40th & E. 43rd Sts. — Land Reutilization Program
— Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 933-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga Community College Foundation — Community Leadership Development Academy
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 863-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 46th and E. 70th Streets — between Cedar and Central — Land Reutilization Program
— Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 414-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 57th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
(O 932-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 61st & 59th Streets — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development,
Inc. (O 413-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Road — public improvement — Ohio Department of Transportation — grant
— Public Service (O 482-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1010
. . . . . . . . . . 1049
. . . . . . . . . . 1043
. . . . . . . . . . 1009
. . . . . . . . . . 1042
. . . . . . . . . . 1024

Ward 06
Browning, 11720 & 12006 Mt. Overlook — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing
Network, Inc. (O 927-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Buckeye Area Dev. Corp. — loan and grant agreement — 11801-11 Buckeye
Rd (O 934-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
Buckeye Area Dev. Corp. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 11801-11 Buckeye Rd. — ten year
sixty percent abatement (O 935-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
Carrington, Patricia (Mrs.) — congratulation (R 893-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Cedar Rd., 7904 — transfer (F 885-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
E. 79th St., 1930 — objection — withdraw (R 951-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation — 19-location identification banners
(O 945-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
Overlook Ave. west side, Carlton Rd. north — change zoning (O 943-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017
Parade the Circle Celebration — banners — University Circle Incorporated
(O 946-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Parade the Circle Celebration — banners — University Circle Incorporated
(O 862-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Ward 07
Addison Rd., 1199 — objection (R 953-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Medley, Steven — condolence (R 890-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Ward 08
12th Annual Miles Standish Miler Fun Run — permit — Miles Standish Elementary School
(O 948-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Berts, Doreen (Mrs.) — congratulation (R 894-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Commercial building — acquisition and renovation — amend title & Section 1 of Ord. No.
221-01 — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 415-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 93rd St., 863-71 — objection — withdraw (R 955-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parade the Circle Celebration — banners — University Circle Incorporated
(O 946-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1019

Ward 09
Parade the Circle Celebration — banners — University Circle
(O 946-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parade the Circle Celebration — banners — University Circle
(O 862-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 11230-43 — objection (R 952-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Incorporated
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Incorporated
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020

Ward 10
E. 133rd St., 732 — — sell City-owned property — Sunrise Development Company
(O 903-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 995
E. 152nd St. & Ivanhoe Rd. — brownfield remediation project — grant — Clean Ohio
Program — contract with Second Growth Institute (O 686-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047

1064

May 15, 2002

The City Record

79

JAMAA Knights Youth Association — Football for Youth Program — Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 947-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019

Ward 11
Holmes Ave., 15638 — objection (R 956-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oliver H. Perry Elementary School — urging to reconsider proposed closure
Education — Margaret Spellacy Middle School — consider conversion to
(R 869-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Raymond Bozak Field — change name of Ball Diamond #2 (O 864-02) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
— Board of
K-8 School
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1039
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049

Ward 12
Fleet Ave., 4909 — objection (R 870-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1039
Saltzman H-Realty Co., Ltd. and Dave’s Supermarket, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement
— amend Ord. No. 2038-01 (O 940-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016
Ward 13
American Heart Walk — permit — American Heart Association (O 858-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Clean Air Challenge (Race) — permit — American Lung Association (O 859-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Elm St., 2325 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 882-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Euclid Ave., 1505, Ste 115 — transfer (F 886-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Goodrich-Gannet Neighborhood Center — Community Safety Program — Ward 13 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 857-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Lakeside Ave., 2000 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 881-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Merrick House for the Clark Fulton Consolidation Project — amend Sec. 2 of Ord. 2419-01
— Ward 13, 14, 15 and 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 860-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
W. 7th Pl. — vacate (O 902-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 995
W. 9th St., 1299 — new (F 879-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
W. 9th St., 1299 - transfer (F 883-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Ward 14
Franklin Blvd., 4114 — Land Reutilization Program — David A. Lechner and Diane
K. Lechner (O 221-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Merrick House for the Clark Fulton Consolidation Project — amend Sec. 2 of Ord.
— Ward 13, 14, 15 and 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 860-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spanish American Committee — Three Kings Day — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 861-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walton Ave., 3512 — Land Reutilization Program — AFFORD (O 282-02) . . . . . . . . .

2419-01
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1042

Ward 15
Memphis Ave. — rehabilitation — amend Ord. No. 2368-92 (O 906-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 996
Merrick House for the Clark Fulton Consolidation Project — amend Sec. 2 of Ord. 2419-01
— Ward 13, 14, 15 and 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 860-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048

Ward 16
Memphis Ave. — rehabilitation — amend Ord. No. 2368-92 (O 906-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 996
Ridge Road — repair and resurfacing — amend Ord. No. 294-98 (O 914-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
William Cullen Bryant Elementary School — evaluate closures — Cleveland Board of
Education (R 954-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Ward 17
Cleveland Public Theatre — acquisition of property — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 866-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Sagrada Familia — Church Festival (O 950-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
W. 54th St. & Herman Ave. Rd. southeast and southwest corners — change the zoning
(O 944-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017-1037
W. 56th St., 3355-57 — transfer (F 884-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Wilson, Julia (Mrs.) — congratulation (R 895-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Ward 18
Cudell Improvement, Inc — Neighborhood Safety and Support Services Program
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 865-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049

1065

The City Record

80

May 15, 2002

Don’s Lighthouse Restaurant — (30th Anniversary) — congratulation (R 892-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Merrick House for the Clark Fulton Consolidation Project — amend Sec. 2 of Ord. 2419-01
— Ward 13, 14, 15 and 18 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 860-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Western Ave. — public improvement — Public Service (O 481-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Western Ave., 10511 — transfer (F 880-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Ward 19
Cleveland Christian Home for Children — designate — Cleveland landmark (O 942-02) . .
Halloran Park — public improvements — amend Sec. 3 of Ord. No. 1490-2000 — Ward 19
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 856-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 12029 — objection (R 867-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., north and south — change zoning (O 417-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McCarthy, Marge — condolence (R 888-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oliver Road S.W. — intention to vacate (R 230-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Western Ave. — public improvement — Public Service (O 481-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1047
1038
1037
. 990
1025
1024

Ward 20
Brookpark Road relocation project — easement — Cleveland Electric Illuminating
— Chase Manhattan Trust Company — successor trustee (O 215-02) . . . . . . . . . .
Industrial Parkway S.W. (Ward 20) (O 905-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McCarthy, Marge — condolence (R 888-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Company
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 996
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990

Ward 21
McCarthy, Marge — condolence (R 888-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Westpark Rd. & Lydian Ave. — sewers rehabilitation — amend Ord. No. 1000-2000
(O 588-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Water Division
Trac-vac residuals collection system — purchase (O 899-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Water — penalty for using without permission — amend Section 535.37 (O 537-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Westpark Rd. & Lydian Ave. — sewers rehabilitation — amend Ord. No. 1000-2000
(O 588-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Weapons
Weapons and explosives — definition — amend Code Sec. 627.01 — Public Safety Dept.
(O 2031-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1040
Welcome
Wesson, Herb J., Jr. (R 897-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Zoning
Lorain Ave., north and south — change zoning (O 417-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1037
Overlook Ave. west side, Carlton Rd. north — change zoning (O 943-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017
W. 54th St. & Herman Ave. Rd. southeast and southwest corners — change the zoning
(O 944-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017-1037

1066

