The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
December the Eleventh, Two Thousand and Two

Mayor
Jane L. Campbell
President of Council
Frank G. Jackson
Clerk of Council
Valarie J. McCall
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
68
68
74
74
75
77
77
78
78
78
79

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Frank G. Jackson
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed..........................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell...........................................774 East 131st Street
Roosevelt Coats .........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr........................................4326 Daisy Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
Matthew Zone ..........................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ......................................1278 West 103rd Street
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44108
44112
44119
44105
44113
44109
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Rodney Jenkins, Executive Assistant
David M. McGuirk, Executive Assistant
Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant
Craig Tame, Executive Assistant
Henry Guzman, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officer
DEPT. OF LAW – Subodh Chandra, Director, Galen L. Schuerlein, Acting
Chief Counsel, Room 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Cleo Henderson, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael G. Konicek, Director,
1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John C. Mok, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie
Avenue.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll, Acting Director, Mural
Building, 1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS: Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland
House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
Environment – Willie Bess, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Health – Dr. Wendy Johnson, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – James A. Draper, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police \ Edward F. Lohn, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES –James Glending,
Acting Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.

Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director, 3rd
Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Sharon Dumas, Commissioner.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES –Eduardo A. Romero,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Steven Sims, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Lorna Wisham, Director;
Mayor Jane L. Campbell, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President;
Rev. Earl Preston, Vic e President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Sec retary;
Members: Diane M. Downing, Matthew Dotson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Betsy Hruby,
Asst. Sec’y.; Robert H. Baker, Director; Council President Frank G.
Jackson.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;
Members; Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver-Washington,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room
516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate
Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Subodh Chandra,
Pre sident; Finance Director Robert H. Baker, Secretary; Council
President Frank G. Jackson.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law
Director Subodh Chandra; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Subodh
Chandra; Utilities Director Michael G. Konicek; Council President Frank
G. Jackson.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Christopher S. Ronayne,
Director; Anthony J. Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Chairman;
Finance Director Robert H. Baker; Council President Frank G. Jackson;
Councilman Dona Brady; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman;
Earl S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule,
Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLE VE LAN D LA ND MARKS CO MMISS ION – R oo m 51 9 – R ic hard
Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush,
James Gibans, Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen
Schuerlein, Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Dwayne J.
Simpson, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Emanuella Groves
12B
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan–Court Administrator,
Paul J. Mizerak–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Gregory F. Clifford–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2002

Vol. 89

No. 4644

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2002
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

MOTION

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook,
Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt, Dolan, Gordon, Reed,
Rybka.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

On the motion of Council Member
Cimperman the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member
Brady.

VALARIE J. McCALL
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, O’Malley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Scott, Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00
vices
Zone,
well,

P.M. — Health & Human SerCommittee: Britt, Chairman;
Vice Chairman; Cintron, ConGordon, Scott, Polensek.

1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Scott, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cintron, Jones,
Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka,
Vice
Chairman,
Conwell,
Lewis,
O’Malley, Scott, Westbrook.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman; O’Malley, Reed, Sweeney.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, December 9, 2002.
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats,
Conwell, Dolan, Gordon, Jackson,
Johnson, Jones, Lewis, O’Malley,
Polensek, Reed, Rybka, Scott, Sweeney, Westbrook, White and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Campbell and Directors Chandra, Baker,
Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Draper,
Hudecek,
Romero,
Sims,
Taylor,
Wisham, Guzman, Ronayne, Acting
Directors Carroll, Glending; Executive Assistants Jenkins, McGuirk,
Tame, Mueller, Celeste Glascow,
Director of Communications; Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison; Jeffrey D. Johnson,
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officers, Paula Morrison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the Council Meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Kurt Wiesner, Pastoral Associate at Trinity
Cathedral, located at 2021 East 22nd
Street in Ward 13. Pledge of Allegiance.

2613

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 2414-02.
From the City of Beachwood —
Copy of Resolution No. 2002-163 re:
Support of the Federal Mental Health
Insurance Parity Bill. Received.
File No. 2415-02.
From The Health Museum of
Cleveland — Fall 2002 Quarterly
Publication — HealthWise. Received.
File No. 2416-02.
From the Board of County Commissioners — Copy of Resolution
urging Cargill Deicing Technology
to resolve the labor dispute with
Teamsters Local 436. Received.
File No. 2417-02.
From the Case Western Reserve
University — CWRU Magazine, Fall
2002 issue. Received.
File No. 2418-02.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Mayor’s Emergency
Requisition/Purchase Order — Replacement Parts for Roller Bearings
for Emergency Repairs to Willow
Lift Bridge - Phase II, Department
of Public Service. Received.
File No. 2419-02.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Mayor’s Emergency
Requisition/Purchase Order — Pesticide Spraying, Department of Public Health. Received.
File No. 2420-02.
From the Department of Public
Safety re: Federal Law Enforcement
Trust Fund on RW 121878, November 5, 2002. Received.
File No. 2421-02.
From the Department of Public
Safety re: Federal Law Enforcement
Trust Fund on RW 121276, October
18, 2002. Received.
File No. 2422-02.
From the Department of Aging —
received Grant from the Western
Reserve Area Agency. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 2423-02.
Re: New Application — 1159396 —
Carl W. Byers, d.b.a. Mikia’s Deli, 965
East 105th Street. (Ward 8). Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 2424-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 9871402 — Z D Classic Co.,
1013 East 185th Street. (Ward 11).
Received.
File No. 2425-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 6548662 — 13108 Buckeye,
Inc., d.b.a. Buckeye Beverage, 13108
Buckeye Road. (Ward 4). Received.
File No. 2426-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 52911910005 — 13813 Lorain
Corp., 11121 Western Avenue, first
floor and basement. (Ward 19). Received.
File No. 2427-02.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 8769771 — T
& B Cleveland, Inc., d.b.a. My Place,
4017 St. Clair Avenue, Down Unit.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 2428-02.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
5205390 — Lim Hunts Stop, 780-86
East 125th Street, first floor and
basement. (Ward 9). Received.
File No. 2429-02.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
8861048 — 3153 West 73rd Street,
Inc., 3153 West 73rd Street. (Ward
17). Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 2430-02.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Contract No. 59441, Cudell Fine Arts
Building
Exterior
Painting.
Received.
File No. 2431-02.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Contract No. 59697 Halloran Skating
Rink Additional Netting. Received.
File No. 2432-02.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Contract No. 59726 — Halloran Skating
Rink Rubber Flooring. Received.
File No. 2433-02.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Contract No. 58866 — League Park
Renovations (Phase 1). Received.
File No. 2434-02.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Contract PI #57865A, Mercedes Cotner
Park Site Improvements.
File No. 2435-02.
From the Department of Public
Utilities — Contract No. 59428 A —
Delta Plumbing, d.b.a. Fox Construction. Received.
File No. 2436-02.
From the Department of Public
Utilities — Contract No. 59155 A —
Utilicon Corp. Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 2437-02 — The Reverend
William Gulas.

Res. No. 2438-02 — Arthur P. Lambros.
Res. No. 2439-02—John Jackson.
Res. No. 2440-02—Everett H. Gregory.
Res. No. 2441-02 — Norma Jean
Hawkins.
Res. No. 2442-02 — Mrs. Mildred
McMullian.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2443-02—Council of Smaller Enterprises (COSE).
Res. No. 2444-02—Lonnie & Marjorie Brandon.
Res. No. 2445-02—Sally B. Tatnall.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2446-02—Mark S. Doss.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 2369-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing a supplement to Lease-Purchase
Agreement relating to the acquisition by lease-purchase of the Cleveland Stadium; approving a Supplemental Trust Agreement and the
issuance of Certificates of Participation to pay costs of refunding outstanding certificates of participation; authorizing a swaption and
related master agreement; authorizing agreements for the sale of the
refunding certificates of participation; and authorizing and approving
related matters.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 305-96 passed by the Council on
March 8, 1996, and for the purpose
of acquiring by lease-purchase the
Cleveland Stadium, the City signed
and
delivered
a
Lease-Purchase
Agreement dated as of June 1, 1997
(as amended and supplemented by
the First Supplemental Lease-Purchase Agreement dated as of September 15, 1999, the Existing Facility Lease) between the ClevelandCuyahoga County Port Authority
(the Authority), as lessor, and the
City, as lessee, and approved a
Trust Agreement dated as of June
1, 1997 (as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental
Trust Agreement dated as of September 15, 1999, the Existing Trust
Agreement), between the Authority
and U.S. Bank National Association,
as trustee (the Trustee), pursuant to
which the Trustee signed and delivered $139,345,000 Certificates of Participation, Series 1997 (Cleveland
Stadium Project) (the 1997 Certificates) and $20,545,051.60 Certificates
of Participation, Series 1999 (Cleveland Stadium Project) (the 1999 Certificates), each such series of Certificates evidencing proportionate
interests in Base Rent (as defined
in the Facility Lease) to be paid by
the City pursuant to the Facility
Lease;
Whereas,
under
the
Existing
Trust Agreement, Additional Certificates (as defined in the Existing
Trust Agreement) may, with the

2614

December 11, 2002
approval of the City, be issued to
pay the cost of refunding outstanding Certificates;
Whereas, because the 1997 Certificates maturing on or after November 15, 2010 are not subject to
optional redemption until on and
after November 15, 2007, an advance
refunding of the 1997 Certificates
under current market conditions
would not result in savings to the
City, but the City may obtain savings at this time by entering into an
agreement (the Swaption) with a
financial
institution
(the
Swap
Counterparty) having terms that
provide for an upfront payment to
the City by the Swap Counterparty
in consideration of the City’s giving
the Swap Counterparty the option to
make effective on a future date an
interest rate exchange transaction
with the City in which the City will
make payments to the Swap Counterparty at a fixed rate and the
Swap Counterparty will make payments to the City at a variable rate,
in each case, calculated in reference
to an amount equal to the principal
amount outstanding, from time to
time, of tax-exempt Additional Certificates
(the
Refunding
Certificates) to be issued to refund the
1997 Certificates maturing on or
after the date of exercise of the
option granted by the Swaption (the
Refunded 1997 Certificates);
Whereas, this Council finds and
determines that the present value of
the Base Rent payments to be made
by the City with respect to the
Cleveland
Stadium,
taking
into
account
the
upfront
payment
described above, will be reduced by
the refinancing of the Refunded 1997
Certificates under the arrangement
described above and that it is necessary and in the best interest of the
City to enter into the Swaption and
refinance the Refunded 1997 Certificates, thereby reducing the financing costs of the Cleveland Stadium;
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that the entering into
the Swaption and the Swap Agreements and authorizing issuance of
the Refunding Certificates, the signing of the Supplemental Lease and
the approval of the Supplemental
Trust Agreement, effective upon
exercise by the Swap Counterparty
of its option under the Swaption, is
needed to enable the City to take
advantage of current favorable market conditions to refinance the
Refunded
1997
Certificates
and
thereby reduce the financing costs
of the Cleveland Stadium; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the Existing Trust Agreement and
Existing Facilities Lease, copies of
which are on file with the Clerk of
Council in File No. 2369-02-A, or elsewhere in this ordinance, unless the
context or use clearly indicates
another or different meaning or
intent:
“Certificate”
or
“Certificates”
means all Certificates issued and
outstanding under the Trust Agreement.

December 11, 2002
“Continuing
Disclosure
Agreement” means one or more agreements authorized by Section 4 of
this Ordinance and to be in accordance with Rule 15c2-12 of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
a policy of bond insurance, surety,
letter of credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit
enhancement, support or liquidity
device used to enhance the security
or liquidity of any Certificates or
Swap Agreements.
“Escrow Agreement” means one or
more agreements among the Authority, the City and the Trustee, in its
capacity as Escrow Agent, authorized by Section 4 of this Ordinance.
“Existing Facility Lease” means
the
Lease-Purchase
Agreement
dated as of June 1, 1997, as supplemented by the First Supplemental
Lease-Purchase Agreement dated as
of September 15, 1999.
“Existing
Trust
Agreement”
means the Trust Agreement dated
as of June 1, 1997, as supplemented
by the First Supplemental Trust
Agreement dated as of September
15, 1999.
“Facility Lease” means the Existing Facility Lease, as to be supplemented and amended by the Supplemental Lease.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the City, from time to
time, in connection with the Swaption, the Swap Agreements, the
Refunding
Certificates
or
other
Hedge Agreements.
“Letter of Representation” means
the Letter of Representation of the
City, to be attached as an exhibit to
the Purchase Agreement, evidencing
approval of the Purchase Agreement
by the City, authorized by Section 5
of this Ordinance.
“Original Purchaser” means the
underwriting firm or firms identified in the Purchase Agreement as
the
original
purchasers
of
the
Refunding Certificates.
“Purchase Agreement” means the
Certificate
Purchase
Agreement
among the Authority, the Trustee
and the Original Purchaser, approved by the City and authorized
under Section 5 of this Ordinance.
“Purchase
Price”
means
the
amount specified in the Purchase
Agreement to be paid by the Original Purchaser for the purchase of
the Refunding Certificates, provided
that amount shall be not less than
97% of the amount remaining after
subtracting from the aggregate principal amount of the Refunding Certificates (i) any net original discount and (ii) any premium or other
costs of any Credit Support Instrument purchased from the proceeds
of the Refunding Certificates.
“Rating Services” means each rating agency assigning a rating to the
Refunding Certificates or if such
rating agency shall be dissolved or
no longer assigning credit ratings to
long-term
debt,
then
any
other
nationally recognized entity designated by the City assigning credit
ratings to long-term debt.
“Refunded
1997
Certificates”
means the 1997 Certificates maturing on or after the date of initial
delivery of the Refunding Certificates.
“Refunding
Certificates”
means
the Refunding Certificates of Participation (Cleveland Stadium Pro-

The City Record

5

ject) authorized by this Ordinance
and the Trust Agreement.
“Supplemental Lease” means the
Second
Supplemental
Lease-Purchase
Agreement
between
the
Authority and the City, dated as of
the same date as the Refunding Certificates, authorized under Section 3
of this Ordinance.
“Supplemental Trust Agreement”
means
the
Second
Supplemental
Trust
Agreement
between
the
Authority and the Trustee, dated as
of the same date as the Refunding
Certificates, authorized under Section 3 of this Ordinance.
“Swap Agreements” means, collectively, the interest rate exchange
agreement in substantially the form
of the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association, Inc. Master
Agreement (Local Currency—Single
Jurisdiction)
together
with
any
related Confirmation, Schedules and
Credit Support Annexes (as defined
in the Master Agreement), and any
other related documents authorized
under of this Ordinance.
“Swap Counterparty” means the
financial institution designated as
the Swap Counterparty in the Swaption and the Swap Agreements. That
financial institution shall be rated
at the time of signing the Swaption
and Swap Agreements not lower
than A+ or A1 by at least one Rating Service or its obligations under
the Swap Agreements shall be guaranteed or insured by an entity rated
at the time of signing the Swaption
and Swap Agreements not lower
than A+ or A1 by at least one Rating Service.
“Swap Interest Payment” means
payment pursuant to the Swap
Agreements of interest or interest
equivalent on a notational amount,
but excluding any Swap Termination Payment.
“Swap
Termination
Payment”
means any payment required to be
paid by the City as a result of the
early termination of the Swaption or
the Swap Agreements.
“Swaption”
means
the
option
agreement between the City and the
Swap Counterparty. under the terms
of which the City will be paid an
amount representing the present
value savings of Base Rent, in consideration of the City’s agreement to
enter into the Swap Agreements,
authorized under Section 6 of this
Ordinance.
“Trust
Agreement”
means
the
Trust Agreement, as to be supplemented and amended by the Supplemental Trust Agreement.
“Trustee” means the bank or trust
company at the time serving as
Trustee under the Trust Agreement,
currently U.S. Bank National Association.

and the Swap Agreements, based on
a notional amount equal to the principal amount of the Refunding
Bonds and taking into account the
upfront payment by the Swap Counterparty to the City, in order to
obtain present value savings with
respect to the Base Rent payments
required to be made by the City pursuant to the Facility Lease. The
Director of Finance shall determine
the time or times and procedures for
the exercise by the Swap Counterparty of its option under the Swaption and the variable rate to be paid
by the Swap Counterparty to the
City under the Swap Agreements in
the event of the exercise of the
option, which may be based on a
percentage of The Bond Market
Association Swap Index or USDLIBOR-BBA or other index.
(c)
Supplemental
Lease
and
Refunding Certificates. It is necessary, proper and in the best interest
of the City to, and the City shall, in
the event of the exercise by the
Swap Counterparty of its option
under the Swaption, sign and deliver the Supplemental Lease, the Letter of Representations and approve
the issuance and sale of the Refunding Certificates pursuant to the Supplemental Trust Agreement and the
Purchase Agreement to pay costs of
refunding the Refunded 1997 Certificates and establishing any necessary reserves for the Refunding
Certificates and expenses relating
to the issuance of the Refunding
Certificates and any Swap Termination Payment incurred in connection
with the issuance of the Refunding
Certificates.
(d) Leased Premises. The Council
of the City found and determined at
the time of the authorization of the
Facility Lease and the 1997 Certificates, and hereby reaffirms that the
Leased Premises are essential to the
proper, efficient and economic operation of the City.

Section 2. Determinations by Council. This Council finds and determines as follows:
(a) Public Purpose. The acquisition and financing by the City of the
Cleveland Stadium pursuant to the
Facility Lease and the 1997 and 1999
Certificates, the use of the Cleveland Stadium as a source of public
relaxation and entertainment, and
the signing and delivery of the
Swaption to refinance the Refunded
1997 Certificates, served and serves
a proper public municipal purpose.
(b) Swaption. It is necessary,
proper and in the best interest of
the City to enter into the Swaption

Section 4. Refunding of the Refunded 1997 Certificates. The Mayor,
the Director of Finance and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties or any two of them are
authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Escrow Agreement approved as
to form and correctness by the
Director of Law, with terms not
inconsistent with this Ordinance as
may be approved by the officers
signing the Escrow Agreement, all
of which shall be conclusively evidenced by that signing. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered

2615

Section 3. Supplemental Lease and
Supplemental Trust Agreement. In
the event of the exercise by the
Swap Counterparty of the Swaption,
the Mayor and the Director of
Finance are each authorized to sign
and deliver the Supplemental Lease
and to signify approval of the Supplemental
Trust
Agreement,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of law, with terms
that are not inconsistent with this
Ordinance as may be approved by
the officers signing such documents
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Supplemental
Lease
and
the
signifying
of
approval of the Supplemental Trust
Agreement.

6
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Escrow
Agreement from proceeds of the
Refunding Certificates to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose. Upon the issuance and
delivery of the Refunding Certificates, the Trustee and the City are
authorized to disburse from the
Funds established and maintained
under the Trust Agreement such
amounts of moneys as are in excess
of the balances required by the
Trust Agreement to then be maintained in those Funds. The Director
of Finance is authorized and directed to give written notice to the
Trustee of the call for redemption of
the Refunded 1997 Certificates on
the earliest redemption date following the issuance of the Refunding
Certificates, pursuant to the Escrow
Agreement and the Existing Trust
Agreement.
Section 5. Determination of Base
Rent and Sale of the Refunding Certificates.
(a)
Principal
Component
and
Term. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
negotiate and provide for the terms
of the Base Rent, as amended pursuant to the Supplemental Lease,
including the final Renewal Term,
which shall end not later than 30
years from the date of initial delivery of the Refunding Certificates,
and the aggregate principal component of Base Rent, which for the
current Renewal Term and all subsequent Renewal Terms in aggregate shall not exceed $175,000,000.
(b) Swap Termination Payment.
Notwithstanding the limitation set
forth in subsection (a) of this Section, the maximum aggregate principal component of Base Rent may
be increased to include the amount
of any Swap Termination Payment
and related incremental costs of any
required reserves, Credit Support
Instruments and costs of issuance in
the event that the Director of
Finance determines it is to the
financial advantage of the City and
in the City’s best interests to terminate the Swap Agreements.
(c) Interest. The Refunding Certificates may be issued as obligations bearing interest at fixed or
variable interest rates, based on the
determination of the Director of
Finance as to the financial advantage to, and best interests of, the
City, as specified in the Letter of
Representations. If the Director of
Finance determines that the Refunding Certificates shall bear interest at variable interest rates, then
the method and procedure by which
the variable rate of interest to be
borne by the Refunding Certificates
shall be determined as provided in
the Supplemental Trust Agreement,
whether by auction, by reference to
a market index, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise; provided that no
Refunding Certificates shall bear
interest at a rate in excess of sixteen
percent
(16%)
per
year.
Notwithstanding that limitation, a
Refunding Certificate held by a
provider of a Credit Support Instrument may bear interest at a rate not
in excess of twenty-five percent
(25%) per year as provided in the
agreement with the provider of the
Credit
Support
Instrument.
The

The City Record
Director of Finance may determine
that the terms of variable rate
Refunding Certificates may or may
not permit the Holders to tender
their variable rate Refunding Certificates for purchase by the City. If
the Director of Finance designates
the Refunding Certificates as variable rate Certificates, and if the
Holders of the Refunding Certificates are to be entitled to tender
those Certificates for purchase, then
the Director of Finance shall also
designate in the Letter of Representation,
the
tender
agent
or
agents and the remarketing agent
or agents, which designations shall
be based on the determination of the
Director of Finance that the parties
so designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable.
(d) Credit Support and Other In struments. The Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into agreements in connection with the delivery of the Refunding Certificates,
and from time to time thereafter so
long as the Refunding Certificates
are outstanding, with providers of
Credit Support Instruments, tender
agents (which may be the Trustee),
remarketing agents (which may be
any of the Original Purchasers) and
others as may be determined by the
Director of Finance to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders
the right of tender and providing for
payment of the purchase price of, or
debt service on, the variable rate
Refunding Certificates. In the event
the variable rate Refunding Certificates are issued as auction rate
obligations, the Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into agreements with auction agents and others, or to cause the Trustee to enter
into those agreements, based on his
determination that the parties so
designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
the
Refunding
Certificates,
and
regardless of whether the Refunding Certificates bear interest at
variable or fixed rates, is authorized
to contract for a Credit Support
Instrument, and to pay the costs of
it from proceeds of the Refunding
Certificates, if he determines that
the Credit Support Instrument will
result in a savings in the cost of the
financing to the City.
(e) Base Rent. The Base Rent to
be payable under and in accordance
with the Facility Lease, shall be an
amount
sufficient
to
cover
the
amount of Swap Interest Payments
and principal of and interest component on the outstanding Certificates of any series that are due and
payable during that Initial Term or
Renewal Term, and such Base Rent
shall be specified or determined in
an exhibit to the Facility Lease; provided, however, that the City’s payment of Base Rent and Additional
Rent is Subject to Appropriation and
Certification as provided in the

2616

December 11, 2002
Facility Lease and nothing in the
Facility Lease, the Refunding Certificates, the Trust Agreement, the
Swaption or the Swap Agreements
constitutes a pledge by the Lessee,
or an obligation of the Lessee, of
any taxes or other moneys to the
payments due thereunder.
(f)
Purchase
Agreement.
The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, the Letter of
Representations,
approved
as
to
from and correctness by the Director of Law, with terms not inconsistent with this Ordinance as may
be approved by the Director of
Finance, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by that signing
signifying approval of the Purchase
Agreement and setting forth the
schedule of Base Rent and the principal components and interest components
thereof,
the
costs
of
issuance of the Refunding Certificates and the reserves for the
Refunding Certificates.
(g) Primary Offering Disclosure.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance after consultation with
the Original Purchaser, a disclosure
document is appropriate relating to
the initial offering of the Refunding
Certificates, the Director of Finance,
on behalf of the City and in that
officer’s official capacity, is authorized to (i) cooperate with the Original Purchaser in the preparation of,
and the making of modifications,
completions or changes of or supplements to, such a disclosure document, (ii) determine, and certify or
otherwise represent when the disclosure document is to be deemed
final or is final, (iii) authorize the
use and distribution of that disclosure document and any supplements
thereto in connection with the initial offering of the Refunding Certificates, and (iv) sign certificates,
statements or other documents in
connection with the finality, accuracy and completeness of that disclosure document. The Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to contract for services for the production and distribution of any disclosure statements, including by
printed and electronic means.
(h) Continuing Disclosure. If and
to the extent required by Rule 15c212 promulgated by the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”),
the City shall enter into a Continuing Disclosure Agreement, approved
as to form and correctness by the
Director of Law, between the City
and the Trustee, with terms not
inconsistent with this Ordinance and
as may be approved by the officer
signing that Agreement on behalf of
the City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by that signing.
In the Continuing Disclosure Agreement, the City shall agree to provide, or cause to be provided, to
each nationally recognized municipal securities information repository
designated by the SEC from time to
time in accordance with that Rule,
and to any state information depository, the annual financial information and operating data and notices
of specified events required by that
Rule, as more particularly described
in the Continuing Disclosure Agreement. The Mayor and Director of
Finance, or either of them, are
authorized to sign and deliver the
Continuing Disclosure Agreement
and any related agreements, certifi-

December 11, 2002
cates and other instruments, and to
deliver such information, as may be
necessary or appropriate to comply
with the requirements of the Rule.
The City understands and agrees
that those commitments are intended to be for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Refunding Certificates, including holders of
book-entry interests in those Certificates.
(i) Application for Ratings. If, in
the judgment of the Director of
Finance the filing of applications
for one or more ratings on the
Refunding Certificates by one or
more nationally-recognized rating
agencies is necessary or desirable
for marketing purposes, the Director
of Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications, and
to provide information as may be
required in support of those applications for the purpose. The cost of
obtaining each such rating, except
to the extent paid by the Original
Purchaser in accordance with the
Purchase Agreement, shall be paid
from the proceeds of the Refunding
Certificates to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6. Swaption, Swap Agreements and Other Hedge Agreements.
The Director of Finance is authorized to sign the Swaption and the
Swap Agreements in the forms now
in the File referenced in Section 1
of this Ordinance, after approval
thereof as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law. The forms
of Swaption and Swap Agreements
are approved with such completions
and changes therein as are not
inconsistent with this Ordinance and
are not substantially adverse to the
City and as shall be approved by
Director of Finance. The approval of
those completions and changes, and
the determination that those completions
and
changes
are
not
adverse to the City, shall be conclusively evidenced by that signing.
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for a Credit Support Instrument to secure or guarantee the payment by the City of
amounts owed by the City to the
Swap Counterparty under the Swap
Agreements. The cost of that Credit Support Instrument may be paid
by the Swap Counterparty or from
the proceeds of the Refunding Certificates or other funds lawfully
available for the purpose.
This Council finds that by engaging
in
interest
rate
hedging
arrangements, from time to time, the
City can, in effect, convert interest
on obligations of the City from a
fixed rate to a floating rate, or from
a floating rate to a fixed rate, and
thereby may reduce its financing
costs by optimizing the relative
amounts of fixed and floating rate
obligations from time to time and
minimizing the risk of variations in
its financing costs. To permit the
City to have the flexibility to undertake interest rate swap, swaption,
rate cap, rate collar and other hedging transactions from time to time,
in addition to the Swaption and the
Swap Agreements, and to establish
the procedures for approving those
transactions, this Council authorizes
the execution and delivery of one or
more hedge agreements (each, a
“Hedge Agreement”) and any relat-

The City Record
ed agreements necessary for the
consummation of the transactions
contemplated by each Hedge Agreement.
Upon the determination by the
Director of Finance that it will be
to the financial advantage of the
City, and in the best interests of the
City, that a hedging arrangement be
undertaken by the City with respect
to Base Rent, in addition to the
Swaption and the Swap Agreements,
the Director of Finance may authorize one or more interest rate hedge
transactions in accordance with the
applicable Hedge Agreement; provided that (a) the maximum aggregate notional amount of interest
rate swap or other hedging transactions outstanding at any one time,
net of offsetting interest rate swap
or other hedging transactions, shall
not exceed such amount as will
result in a lowering of the ratings
assigned to the Certificates by the
rating agencies, as is evidenced by
written correspondence from the rating agencies or policies published in
writing by the rating agencies, (b)
the counterparty shall be rated at
the time of signing the Hedge
Agreements not lower than A+ or
A1 by at least one Rating Service or
its obligations under the Hedge
Agreement shall be guaranteed or
insured by an entity rated at the
time of signing the Hedge Agreement not lower than A+ or A1 by
at least one Rating Service, and (c)
the term of each hedging transaction shall not exceed 30 years. The
approval of each hedge transaction
by the Director of Finance shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery of the applicable
Hedge Agreement by the Director of
Finance.
The City’s obligation to pay any
amounts due under the Swaption,
the Swap Agreements and any other
Hedge Agreement related to the
Facility Lease is Subject to Appropriation and Certification as provided in the Facility Lease, and nothing in the Swaption, the Swap
Agreements or any other Hedge
Agreement constitutes a pledge by
the Lessee, or an obligation of the
Lessee, of any taxes or other moneys to the payments due thereunder.
Section 7. Tax Covenants. The
Director of Finance, as the fiscal
officer, or any other officer having
responsibility
for
executing
the
Facility Lease, is, alone or in conjunction with any of the foregoing
or with any other officer or employee of the City, authorized and
directed (a) to cooperate with the
Original Purchaser and the Trustee
by making, on behalf of the City,
such covenants and representations
in the Facility Lease as are appropriate and necessary so that (a) the
Facility Lease and the Refunding
Certificates will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“Code”) or (ii) be treated other than
as obligations to which Section
103(a) of the Code applies, and (b)
the interest components of the Lease
and on the Refunding Certificates
will not be treated as an item of tax
preference under Section 57 of the
Code. The City hereby covenants it
will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it

2617

7
for the interest components of the
Lease and on the Refunding Certificates to be and remain excluded
from
gross
income
for
federal
income tax purposes and that it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
execution of the Facility Lease is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Facility Lease and the
Refunding Certificates as the City is
permitted to or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the
Code or available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of
assuring, enhancing or protecting
favorable tax treatment or status of
the Lease and the Refunding Certificates or the interest components
thereof or assisting compliance with
requirements
for
that
purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate amount or payments or penalties, or making payments of special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the interest components of the Lease and on the
Refunding Certificates, and (c) to
give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion in
the transcript for the Refunding
Certificates, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds from the sale of the
Refunding Certificates, the facts,
circumstances
and
estimates
on
which they are based, and other
facts and circumstances relevant to
the tax treatment of the interest
component of and the tax status of
the Refunding Certificates. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other
provisions of this ordinance to the
contrary, if the Director of Finance
determines prior to the execution
and delivery of the Purchase Agreement and Letter of Representations
that it is necessary and appropriate
and in the best interests of the City
for the interest components of the
Base Rent to be included in gross
income for federal income tax purposes, the City shall not be bound
by the covenants of this Section 7.
Each covenant made in this Section with respect to the Refunding
Certificates
is
also
made
with
respect to all issues any portion of
the principal of or interest on which
is paid from proceeds of the Refunding Certificates (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding issues in a series of refundings),
to the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on the Refunding Certificates

8
from
gross
income
for
federal
income tax purposes, and the officers identified above are authorized
to take actions with respect to those
issues as they are authorized in this
Section to take with respect to the
Refunding Certificates.
Section 8. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more Financial
Advisors, from time to time, to
assist him in making any of the
determinations
required
by
this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance or in valuing
the Swap Agreements or Hedge
Agreements.
The
Director
of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any Financial Advisor.
Section 9. Validity. It is found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote
of all members of the Council), 36,
37, 48 and all other applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the
rules of this Council have been fully
complied with and this ordinance
was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 10. Severability. Each section of this ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section
is hereby declared to be independent
and the finding or holding of any
section or any subdivision or paragraph of any section to be invalid
or void shall not be deemed or held
to affect the validity of any other
section, subdivision or paragraph of
this ordinance.
Section 11. Compliance with Open
Meeting Law. It is hereby found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of
its committees that resulted in those
formal actions were in meetings
open to the public, in compliance
with all legal requirements including the Charter of the City and any
applicable
provisions
of
Section
121.22 Ohio Revised Code.
Section 12. Effective Date. This
ordinance constitutes an emergency
measure providing for the usual
operation of a municipal department
and providing for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
property, health or safety in that the
signing and delivery of the Swaption, and the authorization of the
Swap Agreements, the Supplemental
Lease,
the
Supplemental
Trust
Agreement, the Purchase Agreement
and the issuance of the Refunding
Certificates, all as authorized by
this ordinance, is needed to enable
the City to take advantage of current favorable market conditions to
refinance the Refunded 1997 Certificates
(taking
into
account
the
upfront payment under the Swaption) and thereby reduce the financing costs of the Cleveland Stadium
and,
provided
this
Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its pas-

The City Record
sage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise, it shall take effect and
be in force from and after the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 2370-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance of Parking Facilities Refunding Revenue Bonds for
the purpose of refunding certain outstanding bonds; authorizing a swaption and related swap agreements;
authorizing agreements for the sale
of the refunding bonds and for their
security;
and
authorizing
and
approving related matters.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 328-92,
passed by the Council on February
24,
1992,
authorized
the
City’s
$71,000,000 Parking Facilities Improvement Revenue Bonds, Series
1992, dated as of October 15, 1992
(the Series 1992 Bonds), for the purpose of providing funds for acquiring, constructing, improving, rehabilitating
and
equipping
certain
parking facilities of the City (the
1992 Project);
Whereas, the Series 1992 Bonds
were refunded by $81,105,000 Parking Facilities Refunding Revenue
Bonds, Series 1996, dated as of September 1, 1996 (the Series 1996
Bonds), authorized by Ordinance No.
1023-96, passed by the Council on
June 18, 1996, under an advance
refunding
structure
within
the
meaning of federal tax laws applicable to tax-exempt municipal securities;
Whereas, the Series 1996 Bonds
may not be refinanced by another
advance refunding structure of taxexempt refunding obligations of the
City, but the Series 1996 Bonds
maturing on or after September 15,
2010 may be refinanced by a current
refunding structure of tax-exempt
refunding obligations of the City
beginning on the 90th day prior to
September 15, 2006, when those
Series 1996 Bonds may first be
called for optional redemption;
Whereas, the City may obtain debt
service savings with respect to the
Series 1996 Bonds prior to 2006 by
entering into an agreement (the
Swaption) with a financial institution (the Swap Counterparty) having terms that provide for an
upfront payment to the City by the
Swap Counterparty in consideration
of the City’s giving the Swap Counterparty the option to make effective at a future date an interest rate
exchange transaction with the City
in which the City will make payments to the Swap Counterparty at
a fixed rate and the Swap Counterparty will make payments to the
City at a variable rate, in each case
calculated in reference to an amount
equal to the principal amount outstanding, from time to time, of taxexempt refunding obligations (the
Refunding Bonds) to be issued by
the City to refund the Series 1996
Bonds maturing on and after the
later of the date of exercise of the
option granted by the Swaption or
September 15, 2010 (the Refunded
1996 Bonds).
Whereas, this Council finds and
determines that the present value of
the debt service payments to be
made by the City with respect to the
1992 Project, taking into account the

2618

December 11, 2002
upfront payment described above,
will be reduced by the refinancing
of the Refunded Bonds under the
arrangement described above and
that it is necessary and in the best
interests of the City to refinance the
Refunded 1996 Bonds, to call for
optional redemption the Refunded
1996 Bonds, and to issue the Refunding Bonds to provide funds, together with any other funds available to
the City for that purpose, to refund
the Refunded 1996 Bonds, thereby
reducing the financing costs of the
1992 Project;
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that the entering into
the Swaption and the Swap Agreements (described below), and authorizing issuance of the Refunding
Bonds upon exercise by the Swap
Counterparty of its option under the
Swaption is needed to enable the
City to take advantage of current
favorable market conditions to refinance the Refunded 1996 Bonds and
thereby reduce the financing costs
of the 1992 Project; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the Existing Indenture, a copy of
which is on file in with the Clerk
of Council in File No. 2370-02-A, or
elsewhere in this ordinance, unless
the context or use clearly indicates
another or different meaning or
intent:
“Additional
Pledged
Revenues”
means, any of the following moneys
not
raised
by
taxation:
fines,
waivers,
court
costs
and
other
receipts of the City relating to citations for the violation of municipal
parking
ordinances;
all
fines,
waivers,
court
costs
and
other
receipts of the City relating to citations for any misdemeanor offense
under municipal ordinances.
“Bond”
or
“Bonds”
means
all
Bonds issued and outstanding under
the Indenture.
“Bond Service Charges” means, for
any period or time, the principal of
(whether at stated maturity, by
mandatory sinking fund redemption,
by acceleration or otherwise) and
interest and any premium due on
the Bonds for that period or payable
at that time, as the case may be.
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means, with respect to the
Bonds, a form or system, as applicable, under which (a) the ownership
of beneficial interests in Bonds and
Bond Service Charges may be transferred only through a book entry,
and (b) physical Bond certificates
in fully registered form are registered only in the name of a Depository or its nominee as Holder, with
the
physical
Bond
certificates
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry system
is maintained by and is the responsibility of the Depository and not
the City or the Trustee. The book
entry is the record that identifies,
and records the transfer of the interest of, the owners of beneficial
(book entry) interests in the Bonds.
“Certificate of Award” means, as
to the Refunding Bonds, the certificate authorized by Section 4 of this

December 11, 2002
Ordinance, to be executed by the
Director of Finance, setting forth
and determining those terms or
other matters pertaining to the
Refunding Bonds and their issuance,
sale and delivery as this Ordinance
authorizes to be determined therein.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance the security or liquidity of
any Bonds or Swap Agreements.
“Escrow Agreement” means one or
more agreements between the City
and the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow Agent, authorized by Section
9 of this Ordinance.
“Existing Indenture” means the
Trust Indenture dated as of September 1, 1996, as supplemented by
the First Supplemental Trust Indenture dated as of September 1, 1996,
each between the City and the
Trustee.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the City, from time to
time, in connection with the Swaption, the Swap Agreements, other
Hedge Agreements or the Refunding
Bonds.
“Funds” means any of the funds
established
under
the
Existing
Indenture.
“Holder” or “Holder of a Bond”
means the Person in whose name a
Bond issued under the Indenture is
registered on the Register.
“Indenture” means the Existing
Indenture, as to be supplemented
and amended by the Second Supplemental Indenture.
“Original Purchaser” means the
underwriting firm or firms identified in the Certificate of Award for
the Refunding Bonds as the original
purchasers of the Refunding Bonds.
“Parking Revenues” means the
Off-street Parking Revenues and the
On-street
Parking
Revenues
as
defined in the Indenture.
“Pledged Revenues” means the
Parking Revenues and any Additional Pledged Revenues identified in the
Second Supplemental Indenture.
“Purchase Agreement” means the
Bond Purchase Agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser, authorized under Section 4 of
this Ordinance.
“Purchase
Price”
means
the
amount specified in the Certificate
of Award to be paid to the City by
the
Original
Purchaser
of
the
Refunding
Bonds,
provided
that
amount shall be not less than 97%
of the amount remaining after subtracting from the aggregate principal amount of the Refunding Bonds
(i) any net original issue discount
and (ii) any premium or other costs
of any Credit Support Instrument
purchased from the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds.
“Rating Services” means each rating agency assigning a rating to the
Refunding Bonds or if such rating
agency shall be dissolved or no
longer assigning credit ratings to
long-term
debt,
then
any
other
nationally recognized entity designated by the City assigning credit
ratings to long-term debt.
“Refunded
1996
Bonds”
means
those Series 1996 Bonds maturing on
or after September 15, 2010 designated in the Certificate of Award to
be refunded with proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds.

The City Record
“Refunding
Bonds”
means
the
Parking Facilities Refunding Revenue Bonds of the City authorized
by this Ordinance, the Certificate of
Award and the Existing Indenture,
as supplemented and amended by
the Second Supplemental Indenture.
“Second Supplemental Indenture”
means
the
Second
Supplemental
Trust Indenture between the City
and the Trustee, dated as of the
same date as the Refunding Bonds,
authorized under Section 11 of this
Ordinance.
“State” means the State of Ohio.
“Swap Agreements” means, collectively, the interest rate exchange
agreement in substantially the form
of the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association, Inc. Master
Agreement (Local Currency – Single
Jurisdiction),
together
with
any
related Confirmation, Schedules, and
Credit Support Annexes (as defined
in that Master Agreement), and
other related documents authorized
under this Ordinance.
“Swap Counterparty” means the
financial institution designated as
the counterparty in the Swaption
and the Swap Agreements. That
financial institution shall be rated
at the time of signing the Swaption
and Swap Agreements not lower
than A+ or A1 by at least one Rating Service or its obligations under
the Swap Agreements shall be guaranteed or insured by an entity rated
at the time of signing the Swaption
and Swap Agreement not lower than
A+ or A1 by at least one Rating
Service.
“Swap Interest Payment” means
payment pursuant to the Swap
Agreements of interest or interest
equivalent on a notional amount,
but excluding any Swap Termination Payment.
“Swap
Termination
Payment”
means any payment required to be
paid by the City as a result of the
early termination of the Swaption or
the Swap Agreements.
“Swaption”
means
the
option
agreement between the City and the
Swap Counterparty under the terms
of which the City will be paid an
amount representing present value
debt service savings, in consideration of the City’s agreement to enter
into the Swap Agreements authorized under Section 12 of this Ordinance.
“Trustee” means the bank or trust
company at the time serving as
Trustee under the Indenture, currently J. P. Morgan Trust Company,
National Association.
Section 2. Determinations by Council. This Council finds and determines as follows:
(a) Public Purpose. It was necessary for the City to acquire, construct, improve, rehabilitate and
equip the municipal parking facilities comprising the 1992 Project; the
1992 Project and the issuance of the
Series 1992 Bonds to pay costs of the
1992 Project, and the delivery of the
Swaption,
the
issuance
of
the
Refunding Bonds and any payments
under the Swap Agreements to refinance the Refunded 1996 Bonds,
served or serves a proper public
municipal
purpose
by
providing
needed parking facilities to the people of the City, alleviating traffic
congestion on the streets of the City,
thereby facilitating the movement of
traffic, the movement of police and

2619

9
fire vehicles in the City for the safety and welfare of its citizens, and
the cleaning of the streets for the
health, safety and welfare of its citizens. The facilities comprising the
1992 Project are located in designated urban renewal areas of the
City, and the City’s completion of
the municipal facilities constituting
the 1992 Project in those urban
renewal areas, and the issuance of
the Series 1992 Bonds to pay costs
of the 1992 Project, the delivery of
the Swaption, the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds and any payments
under the Swap Agreements to refinance the Refunded 1996 Bonds,
were and will be undertaken for the
elimination of conditions of blight
determined to exist in those areas
and to prevent the reoccurrence of
such conditions of blight. The 1992
Project advances the economic welfare of the City by increasing and
promoting commerce by providing
parking facilities for surrounding
businesses and other commercial
enterprises, and the 1992 Project creates and preserves jobs and employment opportunities in the City and
improves the economic welfare of
the City by maintaining and improving access to the City by the commuting public.
(b) Swaption. It is necessary,
proper and in the best interests of
the City to enter into the Swaption
and the Swap Agreements, based on
a notional amount equal to the principal amount of the Refunding
Bonds and taking into account the
upfront payment by the Swap Counterparty to the City, in order to
obtain present value debt service
savings with respect to the Series
1996 Bonds. The Director of Finance
shall determine the time or times
and procedures for the exercise by
the Swap Counterparty of its option
under the Swaption and the variable
rate to be paid by the Swap Counterparty to the City under the Swap
Agreements in the event of the exercise of the option, which may be
based on a percentage of The Bond
Market Association Swap Index or
USD-LIBOR-BBA or other index.
(c) Issuance of Refunding Bonds.
It is necessary, proper and in the
best interest of the City to, and the
City shall, in the event of the exercise by the Swap Counterparty of its
option under the Swaption, issue the
Refunding Bonds in the maximum
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$80,000,000 for the purpose of refinancing the Refunded 1996 Bonds.
The aggregate principal amount of
Refunding Bonds to be issued shall
be the amount determined in the
Certificate of Award by the Director
of Finance to be the aggregate principal amount of Refunding Bonds
that are required to be issued, taking into account any other funds
available to the City for the purpose, in order to refund the Refunded 1996 Bonds, to establish any
reserves required under the Indenture, to pay costs of any Credit Support Instruments, to pay expenses
relating to the refunding or the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds
and otherwise to effect the purpose
for which the Refunding Bonds are
to be issued.
(d) Pledged Revenues. Bond Service Charges on the Refunding
Bonds and Swap Interest Payments
shall be payable from the Parking
Revenues and may be payable also

10
from the Additional Pledged Revenues to the extent provided in the
Second Supplemental Indenture and
the Swap Agreements. Bond Service
Charges on the Refunding Bonds
and Swap Interest Payments may be
secured by a pledge of those Revenues and may be Parity Obligations or Limited Parity Obligations
as defined in the Existing Indenture.
(e) Refunding of Refunded 1996
Bonds. It is necessary and in the
best interest of the City to refund
the Refunded 1996 Bonds and to
redeem by optional redemption, on
the first redemption date following
the
issuance
of
the
Refunding
Bonds, those Refunded 1996 Bonds
maturing after that date. The Director of Finance is authorized to give
written notice to the Trustee of that
call for redemption, and the Refunded 1996 Bonds shall be redeemed in
accordance with the Existing Indenture and the Escrow Agreement.
(f) Swap Termination Payment.
Notwithstanding the limitation set
forth in subdivision (c) of this Section, the maximum aggregate principal amount of Refunding Bonds
may be increased to include the
amount of any Swap Termination
Payment and related incremental
costs of any reserves required under
the Indenture, any Credit Support
Instruments, and costs of issuance
in the event that that Director of
Finance determines it is to the
financial advantage of the City and
in the City’s best interests to terminate the Swap Agreements.
Section 3. Terms and Provisions of
the Refunding Bonds.
The Refunding Bonds shall be
issued only in registered form, substantially in the form set forth in
the Indenture. The Refunding Bonds
shall contain on the face thereof a
statement to the effect that the
Refunding Bonds, as to both principal and interest, are not a general
obligation of the City but are
payable solely from the revenues
pledged to their payment under the
Indenture.
The Refunding Bonds: shall be
dated the date of their initial delivery, or such other date as may be
established in the Certificate of
Award; shall bear interest from
their date or the most recent date to
which interest has been paid or duly
provided for, and that interest shall
be payable on the first Business
Day of each month or as otherwise
provided for in the Indenture; shall
mature on the dates and in the
respective principal amounts set
forth in the Certificate of Award
provided that the final maturity
shall be not later than 30 years from
date of their original delivery, as is
determined in the Certificate of
Award; shall be subject to mandatory and optional redemption on the
terms and conditions set forth in the
Certificate of Award and the Indenture; and shall be signed by the
Mayor and the Director of Finance,
provided that one or both of such
signatures may be a facsimile, and
shall bear the seal of the City or a
facsimile thereof. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Refunding Bonds and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness by his manual or facsimile signature.

The City Record
The Refunding Bonds may be
issued as obligations bearing interest at fixed or variable interest
rates. In the event that the Director
of Finance determines that the
City’s best interests will be served
by causing the Refunding Bonds to
be obligations bearing interest at
variable interest rates, then the
Director of Finance is authorized to
so specify in the Certificate of
Award. If the Director of Finance so
determines, then the method and
procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the
Refunding Bonds shall be determined as provided in the Second
Supplemental Indenture, whether by
auction, by reference to a market
index, by a remarketing agent or
otherwise; provided that no Refunding Bonds shall bear interest at a
rate in excess of sixteen percent
(16%) per year. Notwithstanding
that limitation, Refunding Bonds
held by a provider of a Credit Support Instrument may bear interest at
a rate not in excess of twenty-five
percent (25%) per year as provided
in the agreement with the provider
of the Credit Support Instrument.
The Director of Finance may determine that the terms of variable rate
Refunding Bonds may or may not
permit the Holders to tender their
variable rate Refunding Bonds for
purchase by the City. If the Director
of
Finance
designates
the
Refunding Bonds as variable rate
bonds, and if the Holders of the
Refunding Bonds are to be entitled
to tender those Refunding Bonds for
purchase,
then
the
Director
of
Finance shall also designate in the
Certificate of Award for those variable rate Refunding Bonds, the tender agent or agents and the remarketing agent or agents, which designations shall be based on the
determination of the Director of
Finance that the parties so designated
possess
the
requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into agreements in
connection with the delivery of the
Refunding Bonds, and from time to
time thereafter so long as the
Refunding Bonds are outstanding,
with providers of Credit Support
Instruments, tender agents (which
may be the Trustee), remarketing
agents (which may be any of the
Original Purchasers) and others as
may be determined by the Director
of Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, permitting holders the right
of tender and providing for payment
of the purchase price of, or debt service on, the variable rate Refunding
Bonds. In the event the Refunding
Bonds are issued as auction rate
obligations, the Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into agreements with auction agents and others, or to cause the Trustee to enter
into those agreements, based on the
determination by the Director of
Finance that the parties so designated
possess
the
requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide

2620

December 11, 2002
such services are fair and commercially reasonable.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
the Refunding Bonds, and regardless
of
whether
the
Refunding
Bonds bear interest at variable or
fixed rates, is authorized to contract
for a Credit Support Instrument, and
to pay the costs of it from proceeds
of the Refunding Bonds, if he determines
that
the
Credit
Support
Instrument will result in a savings
in the cost of the financing to the
City.
The Refunding Bonds shall be
issued originally to a Depository (as
defined in the Indenture) for use in
a book entry system and, if and as
long as a book entry system is utilized, (i) the Refunding Bonds shall
be issued in the form of a single
registered Refunding Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Refunding
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership
of beneficial interests in book entry
form shall be shown by book entry
on the system maintained and operated by the Depository and its participants, and transfers of the ownership of beneficial interests shall
be made only by book entry by the
Depository and its participants; and
(iv) the Bonds as such shall not be
transferable
or
exchangeable,
except
for
transfer
to
another
Depository or to another nominee of
a Depository, without further action
by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Refunding Bonds for use in
a book entry system, the Director of
Finance and Trustee may attempt to
establish
a
securities
depository/book entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance and Trustee
do not or are unable to do so, the
Director of Finance and Trustee,
after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the
then
Depository
and
any
other
arrangements
deemed
necessary,
shall permit withdrawal of the
Refunding Bonds from the Depository, and authenticate and deliver
registered Refunding Bond certificates to the assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost
and expense (including any costs of
printing), if the event is not the
result of City action or inaction, of
those
persons
requesting
such
issuance.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, or any
one of them, are authorized and
directed to the extent necessary or
required to enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with the book entry system
for the Refunding Bonds, after
determining (as evidenced by their
signing) that the signing thereof
will not endanger the funds or securities of the City under the Indenture.
Section 4. Sale of the Refunding
Bonds. The Series 1996 Bonds are
awarded and sold to the Original
Purchaser in accordance with the

December 11, 2002
Purchase Agreement and at the Purchase Price, as shall be determined
in the Certificate of Award. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign the Certificate of Award selling the Refunding Bonds to the
Original Purchaser at the Purchase
Price established therein in accordance with this Ordinance, and to
evidence the further terms of that
sale by completing, signing and
delivering the Purchase Agreement,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, with terms
not inconsistent with this Ordinance
and as may be approved by the
Director of Finance, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Purchase Agreement by the Director of Finance.
Having due regard to the best
interests of the City there shall be
further determined in the Certificate
of Award or, as appropriate, in the
Second Supplemental Indenture, consistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance, (a) the date of the
Refunding Bonds, (b) the final
aggregate principal amount of the
Refunding Bonds, (c) the principal
maturity
or
maturities
of
the
Refunding Bonds, the dates on
which principal shall be payable,
whether by mandatory sinking fund
redemption or at stated maturity,
(d) the dates and prices upon and
at which any Refunding Bonds shall
be subject to optional redemption,
(e) the interest rate or rates and, if
the Refunding Bonds bear interest
at variable rates, the method of
determining those variable rates,
and the dates on which interest is
to be paid, (f) the Purchase Price
of the Refunding Bonds, and (g)
any other matters as provided in
this Ordinance.
It is hereby determined by this
Council
that
the
terms
of
the
Refunding Bonds and the procedures for their sale and the determination of the price to be paid for
them, all as established in accordance with this Ordinance, the Purchase Agreement and the Indenture,
are and will be in the best interest
of the City.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Clerk of Council and
other City officials as appropriate
are authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
City to establish the date, location,
procedure and conditions for the
delivery of the Refunding Bonds to
the Original Purchaser and to take
all actions necessary to effect due
signing, authentication and delivery
of the Refunding Bonds under the
terms of this Ordinance, the Purchase Agreement and the Indenture.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance and other City officials as
deemed appropriate, each are authorized, on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities, to prepare
or cause to be prepared, a disclosure
document relating to the issuance of
the Refunding Bonds. The distribution and use of that disclosure document by the Original Purchaser is
hereby authorized and approved.
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of the
disclosure document, including by
printed and electronic means.
If and to the extent required by
SEC Rule 15c2-12, those officers and
each of them are authorized, on
behalf of the City and in their offi-

The City Record
cial capacities, to certify or otherwise represent, that the disclosure
document is a “deemed final” official statement (except for permitted
omissions) by the City as of its date
for purposes of that Rule or is a
final official statement for purposes
of that Rule. Those officers each are
further authorized to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, the disclosure document
and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of
the Refunding Bonds as may, in
their judgment, be necessary or
appropriate. Those officers each are
further authorized to sign and deliver, on behalf of the City and in their
official capacities, the disclosure
document and such certificates in
connection with the accuracy of it
and any amendment thereto as may,
in their judgment, also be necessary
or appropriate.
If and to the extent required by
SEC Rule 15c2-12, for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners
from time to time of the Refunding
Bonds, the City may agree to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of SEC
Rule 15c2-12. In order to describe
and specify certain terms of the
City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby
to
implement
that
agreement,
including provisions for enforcement, amendment and termination,
the Mayor and the Director of
Finance are authorized to prepare,
or cause to be prepared, and to sign
and deliver, in the name and on
behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate,
which shall constitute the continuing disclosure agreement made by
the City for the benefit of the holders and beneficial owners of the
Refunding
Bonds
in
accordance
with SEC Rule 15c2-12. The performance of that Agreement shall be
subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet
costs
the
City
would
be
required to incur to perform it. The
Director of Finance is further authorized to establish procedures in
order to ensure compliance by the
City with its continuing disclosure
agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices.
If in the judgment of the Director
of Finance the filing of applications
for a rating on the Refunding Bonds
by one or more Rating Services is
necessary or desirable for marketing
purposes,
the
Director
of
Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications, to
provide such information as may be
required in support of them and to
provide further for the payment of
the cost of such a rating from proceeds of the Refunding Bonds to the
extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
Section 5. Application of Proceeds
of Refunding Bonds. The proceeds
of sale of the Refunding Bonds shall
be allocated and deposited as provided in the Indenture, including:
deposit to the Interest Payment
Account of the Bond Service Fund,
any accrued interest paid by the
Original Purchaser; deposit to the
Escrow Fund, the amount necessary,

2621

11
when added to the amounts to be
deposited in the Escrow Fund by the
Escrow Trustee or by the City from
other sources in accordance with
Section 9 of this ordinance, to effect
the payment and discharge of the
Refunded 1996 Bonds; deposit to any
reserve funds such amounts as may
be necessary, when added to any
amounts in the funds available for
the purpose, to establish or maintain
reserves required by the Indenture;
payment to the Swap Counterparty
any Swap Termination Payment
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be paid from proceeds of
the Refunding Bonds in the event
the Director of Finance determines
it is in the best interests of the City
to terminate the Swap Agreements;
and deposit to the Costs of Issuance
Fund, as defined in the Indenture,
such amounts needed to pay costs of
refunding the Refunded 1996 Bonds
and issuing the Refunding Bonds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Refunding Bonds are appropriated
and shall be used for the purpose
for which those Bonds are issued as
provided in this Ordinance and the
Indenture.
Section 6. Security for the Bonds.
The Refunding Bonds do not constitute a debt, or a pledge of the
faith and credit of the City. Bond
Service Charges on the Refunding
Bonds shall be secured by, and shall
be payable solely from the Parking
Revenues
and
any
Additional
Pledged Revenues as provided in
the Indenture.
Section 7. Establishment of Funds;
Application of Revenues. There is
hereby created pursuant to Section
725.03 of the Ohio Revised Code an
urban renewal debt retirement fund
which shall be maintained as a trust
fund in the custody of the Trustee
as a separate deposit account and as
an account of the Revenue Fund
under the Indenture. The Parking
Revenues
and
any
Additional
Pledged Revenues pledged under
the Indenture shall be deposited in
that urban renewal debt retirement
fund pursuant to Chapter 725 of the
Ohio Revised Code and the Indenture. All other Funds, accounts
therein and Accounts described in
the Indenture shall be and hereby
are established and shall be designated as indicated in the Indenture.
Each Fund and Account shall be
maintained in the custody of the
City or the Trustee, as provided in
the Indenture. The Parking Revenues and any Additional Pledged
Revenues and other money and
funds as described in the Indenture
shall be deposited in, and disbursed
from, those Funds, accounts therein
and Accounts as provided in the
Indenture.
Section 8. Covenants of the City.
The City, by issuance of the Refunding Bonds and any additional Bonds,
covenants and agrees with the holders of the Refunding Bonds to perform its covenants and agreements
set forth in the Indenture.
Section 9. Refunding of the Refunded 1996 Bonds. The Mayor, the
Director of Finance and the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties or any two of them are authorized to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, the

12
Escrow Agreement, between the
City and the Escrow Trustee in a
form approved by the Director of
Law and by the officers signing the
Escrow Agreement, not inconsistent
with this Ordinance and not adverse
to the City which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Escrow Agreement by those officers. The Director of Finance shall
provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Escrow Agreement from proceeds of the Refunding Bonds to the
extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose. Upon the issuance
and
delivery
of
the
Refunding
Bonds, the Trustee and the City are
authorized to disburse from the
Funds established and maintained
under the Existing Indenture such
amounts of moneys as are in excess
of the balances required by the
Indenture to then be maintained in
those Funds.
Section 10. Tax Covenants of City.
The City covenants that it will
use, and will restrict the use and
investment of, the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds in such manner
and to such extent as may be necessary so that (a) the Refunding
Bonds will not (i) constitute private
activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or
hedge bonds under Section 141, 148
or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the Code), or
(ii) be treated other than as bonds
to which Section 103 of the Code
applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of
the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Refunding Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the
proceeds
of
the
Refunding
Bonds to the governmental purposes
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds and, as applicable, of
property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Refunding Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Refunding Bonds as
the City is permitted or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhanc-

The City Record
ing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Refunding Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments of penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Refunding Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Refunding Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the amount and use of all the
proceeds of the Refunding Bonds,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Refunding Bonds.
Each covenant made in this Section with respect to the Refunding
Bonds is also made with respect to
all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Refunding Bonds (and,
if different, the original issue and
any refunding issues in a series of
refundings), to the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on the Refunding
Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above are authorized
to take actions with respect to those
issues as they are authorized in this
Section to take with respect to the
Refunding Bonds.
Section 11. Indenture and Other
Documents. To secure the payment
of the Bond Service Charges on the
Refunding Bonds as the same shall
become due and payable and the
performance by the City of its obligations provided for in this Ordinance, the Mayor, the Director of
Finance and the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, or any
two of them, are authorized and
directed, for and in the name of the
City and on its behalf, to sign and
deliver to the Trustee the Second
Supplemental Indenture, approved
as to form and correctness by the
Director of Law, with terms not
inconsistent with this Ordinance and
the Certificate of Award as may be
approved by the officers signing the
Supplemental Indenture on behalf of
the City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
and delivery of that Supplemental
Indenture by those officers.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Director of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
the
Director of Law, the Clerk of Council and such other officers of the
City as may be appropriate are
authorized to furnish, execute and
deliver such documents, certifications and instruments as may be
necessary or appropriate to issue

2622

December 11, 2002
the Refunding Bonds and to consummate the transactions contemplated herein, and in the Swaption,
the Swap Agreements, the Indenture, the Escrow Agreement and the
Purchase Agreement. The Clerk of
Council or other appropriate official
of the City shall furnish the Original Purchasers a true transcript of
proceedings certified by the Clerk or
other official, of all proceedings had
with reference to the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds along with such
information for the records as is
necessary to determine the regularity and validity of the issuance of
the Refunding Bonds.
Section 12. Swaption and Swap
Agreements.
The
Director
of
Finance is authorized to sign the
Swaption and the Swap Agreements
in the forms now on file with the
Clerk of Council in the file referenced in Section 1 after approval
thereof as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law. The forms
of Swaption and Swap Agreements
are approved with such completions
and changes therein as are not
inconsistent with this Ordinance and
are not substantially adverse to the
City and as shall be approved by
Director of Finance. The approval of
those completions and changes, and
the determination that those completions
and
changes
are
not
adverse to the City, shall be conclusively evidenced by that signing.
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for a Credit Support Instrument to secure or guarantee the payment by the City of
amounts owed by the City to the
Swap Counterparty under the Swap
Agreements. The cost of that Credit Support Instrument may be paid
by the Swap Counterparty or from
the
proceeds
of
the
Refunding
Bonds or other funds lawfully available for the purpose.
Section 13. Other Hedge Agreements. This Council finds that by
engaging in interest rate hedging
arrangements, from time to time, the
City can, in effect, convert interest
on all or a portion of the Bonds
under the Indenture from a fixed
rate to a floating rate, or from a
floating rate to a fixed rate, and
thereby may reduce its cost of borrowing by optimizing the relative
amounts of fixed and floating rate
obligations from time to time and
minimizing the risk of variations in
its debt service costs. To permit the
City to have the flexibility to undertake interest rate swap, swaption,
rate cap, rate collar and other hedging transactions from time to time,
in addition to the Swaption and the
Swap Agreements, and to establish
the procedures for approving those
transactions, this Council authorizes
the execution and delivery of one or
more hedge agreements (each, a
“Hedge Agreement”) and any related
agreements necessary for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by each Hedge Agreement.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance that it is to the
financial advantage of the City and
in the City’s best interests that a
hedging arrangement be undertaken
by the City with respect to any
Bonds issued and Outstanding under
the Indenture, in addition to the
Swaption and the Swap Agreements,
the Director of Finance may autho-

December 11, 2002
rize one or more interest rate hedge
transactions in accordance with the
applicable Hedge Agreement; provided that (a) the maximum aggregate notional amount of interest
rate swap or other hedging transactions outstanding at any one time,
net of offsetting interest rate swap
or other hedging transactions, shall
not exceed such amount as will
result in a lowering of the ratings
assigned to the Bonds by the rating
agencies, as is evidenced by written
correspondence
from
the
rating
agencies or policies published in
writing by the Rating Services, (b)
the counterparty shall be rated at
the time of signing the Hedge
Agreement not lower than A+ or A1
by at least one rating agency or its
obligations under the Hedge Agreement shall be guaranteed or insured
by an entity rated at the time of
signing the Hedge Agreement not
lower than A+ or A1 by at least one
Rating Service, and (c) the term of
each interest rate swap transaction
shall not exceed 30 years. The
approval of each interest rate hedge
transaction
by
the
Director
of
Finance shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery
of the applicable Hedge Agreement
by the Director of Finance.
Section
14.
Security for Swap
Agreements and Other Hedge Agreements. The City’s obligations to
make Swap Interest Payments under
the Swap Agreements and similar
payments of interest or interest
equivalent under any Hedge Agreement shall be payable from the
Parking Revenues
and may
be
payable also from the Additional
Pledged Revenues. Those payments
may be secured by a pledge of those
Revenues on a parity with the
pledge of those Revenues to the payment of Bond Service Charges on the
Refunding Bonds, and may be Limited Parity Obligations or Parity
Obligations as defined in the Existing Indenture, all as determined by
the Director of Finance and set forth
in the Swaption, Swap Agreements
or other Hedge Agreements. Any
Swap Termination Payment shall be
payable from the Parking Revenues
and may be payable also from the
Additional Pledged Revenues or any
other available moneys of the City
permitted by law to be used for the
purpose of making those payments
as approved by the Director of
Finance and set forth in the Swaption or Swap Agreements or Hedge
Agreements.
The obligation of the City to make
payments under the Swaption, the
Swap Agreements or any Hedge
Agreement does not and shall not
represent or constitute a general
obligation, debt, bonded indebtedness
or a pledge of the faith and credit
of the City, the State of Ohio or any
other political subdivision thereof.
Nothing herein gives the Swap Counterparty or any party to any Hedge
Agreement the right to have excises,
ad valorem or other taxes levied by
the City or the State of Ohio or by
the taxing authority of any other
political subdivision for the payment
of any amounts due under the Swaption, the Swap Agreements or any
Hedge Agreement.
Section 15. Financial Advisors.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more Finan-

The City Record
cial Advisors, from time to time, to
assist him in making any of the
determinations
required
by
this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance or to value the
Swap Agreements or other Hedge
Agreements.
The
Director
of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any Financial Advisor so
retained.
Section 16. Severability. Each section of this ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section
is declared to be independent and
the finding or holding of any section or any subdivision or paragraph
of any section to be invalid or void
shall not be deemed or held to affect
the validity of any other section,
subdivision or paragraph of this
ordinance.
Section 17. Validity. This Council
determines that all acts and conditions necessary to be done or performed by the City or to have been
met precedent to and in the issuing
of the Refunding Bonds and the
signing and delivery of the Swaption and the Swap Agreements in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding special obligations of the
City have been performed and have
been met, or will at the time of
delivery of the Refunding Bonds or
the Swaption and the Swap Documents, as the case may be, have
been performed and have been met,
in regular and due form as required
by law; and that no statutory or constitutional limitation of indebtedness or taxation will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds and the signing
and delivery of the Swaption and
the Swap Agreements. It is further
found and determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the
provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote
of all members of the Council), 36,
37, 48 and all other applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the
rules of this Council have been fully
complied with and this ordinance
was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 18. Compliance with Open
Meeting Law. This Council finds
and determines that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
ordinance were taken in an open
meeting of this Council and that all
deliberations of this Council and of
any committees that resulted in
those formal actions were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 19. Effective Date. This
ordinance constitutes an emergency
measure providing for the usual
operation of a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, property, health or safety in
that the delivery of the Swaption
and Swap
Agreements and the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds
authorized by this ordinance is
needed to enable the City to take
advantage
of
current
favorable
market conditions to refinance the
Refunded 1996 Bonds (taking into
account the upfront payment under
the Swaption) and thereby reduce

2623

13
the financing costs of the 1992 Project and, provided this ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise, it shall take effect and
be in force from and after the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 2371-02.
By Council Members Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of cleaning and
cement mortar lining of various distribution water mains in the City of
Cleveland for 2003, and authorizing
the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, the Council determines to
make the public improvement of
cleaning and cement mortar lining
of various distribution water mains
in the City of Cleveland for 2003, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, by one or more
contracts let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding
for a gross price for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the above public
improvement
with
the
lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement provided however, that
each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of the Director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of the improvement.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001, 52
SF 223, 52 SF 225, 52 SF 227, and
from the funds and subfunds to
which are credited the proceeds of
the sale of future waterworks revenue bonds which include this purpose, Request No. 131731.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.

14
Ord. No. 2372-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services necessary to design, layout, produce,
and distribute 2002 and 2003 annual
reports and other customer public
information and promotional materials, for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to design, layout, produce, and distribute 2002 and 2003 annual reports
and other customer public information
and
promotional
materials,
including but not limited to writing,
photography and artwork offset lithographic reproduction, for the various divisions of the Department of
Public Utilities.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Utilities, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for the
services contemplated shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001, 54 SF 001
and 58 SF 001, Request No. 131798.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 2373-02.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services necessary to design, layout, produce,
and distribute 2002 and 2003 consumer confidence reports, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract one or more consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to design, layout, produce, and distribute 2002 and 2003 consumer confidence reports, including but not
limited to writing, photography and
artwork offset lithographic reproduction, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Utilities, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for the
services contemplated shall be paid
from Fund No. 52 SF 001, Request
No. 131797.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 2374-02.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Westbrook, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
and rehabilitating the existing ramp
for Concourse C and its associated
utilities at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, and authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, the Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing and rehabilitating the
existing ramp for Concourse C and
its associated utilities at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, for
the Department of Port Control, by
one or more contracts let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis for
the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the above public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each

2624

December 11, 2002
separate trade and each distinct
component part of the improvement
may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001, 60 SF
104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, and from
any funds or subfunds to which are
credited any federal grants or federal
PFC
authorization
for
the
above improvement and the proceeds from the sale of any airport
revenue bonds issued for a purpose
which includes the above improvement, Request No. 118298.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, City
Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2375-02.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Westbrook, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rebuilding
the structure of the long-term parking garage at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, and authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, the Council determines to
make the public improvement of
rebuilding the structure of the longterm parking garage, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, by one or more contracts let
to the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the above public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each
separate trade and each distinct
component part of the improvement
may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60
SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, and
from any funds or subfunds to
which are credited any federal
grants or federal PFC authorization
for the above improvement and the
proceeds from the sale of any airport revenue bonds issued for a purpose
which
includes
the
above
improvement, Request No. 129107.

December 11, 2002
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, City
Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2376-02.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
taxiway, ramp and runway improvements for the various divisions of
Port Control; authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one
or more contracts for the making of
the improvement; and authorizing
the Director to employ one or more
professional consultants to design
the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
constructing taxiway, ramp and runway improvements, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control, by one or more contracts let
to the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the above public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each
separate trade and each distinct
component part of the improvement
may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to design the authorized improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for the employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control for the purpose
of compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Port Control, and certified by
the Director of Finance.

The City Record
Section 5. That the cost of the
improvement and the professional
services, authorized shall be paid
from Fund No. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104,
60 SF 105, 60 SF106, and from any
funds or subfunds to which are credited any federal grants or federal
PFC authorization for the above
improvement and the proceeds from
the sale of any airport revenue
bonds issued for a purpose which
includes the above improvement,
Request No. 129119.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, City
Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2377-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of asphalt,
concrete and tack coat, and labor
and materials to deliver, spread, and
compact those materials to repair
roadways and runways, for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of two years for the necessary items of asphalt, concrete
and tack coat, and labor and materials to deliver, spread, and compact
those materials to repair roadways
and runways, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase,
which
purchase,
together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 118295)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency mea-

2625

15
sure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2378-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
amend Contract No. 53694 with Parsons Infrastructure and Technology,
Inc. for professional management
services relating to the expansion of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to amend
Contract No. 53694 with Parsons
Infrastructure and Technology, Inc.
to provide additional management
services relating to the expansion of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and to extend the term of the
Contract to December 31, 2004. This
amendment will increase the contract by $11,000,000.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60
SF 105, 60 SF 106, passenger facility charges and the fund and/or subfunds to which are credited the proceeds of any general airport revenue
bonds, federal grants, state grants,
and local grants issued for the purposes of this contract, Request No.
129113.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2379-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide emergency
spill response, evaluation, handling,
and disposal at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport and Burke
Lakefront Airport, for the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more

16
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide emergency spill response,
evaluation, handling, and disposal at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport,
for the Department of Port Control.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for the employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control for the purpose
of compiling the list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control. The contract authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for the
services contemplated shall be paid
from Fund No. 60 SF 001, Request
No. 129106.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2380-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants
to
prepare
planning
studies, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to prepare planning studies, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for the employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control for the purpose
of compiling the list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control. The contract authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.

The City Record
Section 2. That the costs for the
services contemplated shall be paid
from Fund No. 60 SF 001, Request
No. 118280.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2381-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services necessary to design, layout, produce,
and distribute 2002 and 2003 annual
reports and other customer public
information materials, for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract one or more consultants
or one or more firms of consultants
for the purpose of supplementing
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to design, layout, produce, and distribute
2002 and 2003 annual reports and
other customer public information
materials, including but not limited
to writing, photography and artwork offset lithographic reproduction, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Port Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for the
services contemplated shall be paid
from Fund No. 60 SF 001, Request
No. 129109.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.

2626

December 11, 2002
Ord. No. 2382-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract or contracts of one double wall tank, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
one or more written contracts in
accordance with the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for each or all of the following items: one double wall tank,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for a
gross price for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001,
Request No. 118293.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2383-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into professional services contracts,
purchase
contracts
and
requirement contracts to obtain marketing and advertising services,
materials, and equipment necessary
to promote the Cleveland Hopkins
International and Burke Lakefront
Airports, for a period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
professional consulting firms for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City in order to
provide marketing, promotional and
advertising services necessary to
promote Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke Lakefront Airports, for a period of one year.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants from a list of qualified consultants available for the employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Port Control for the purpose of compiling such a list. The
compensation to be paid for the ser-

December 11, 2002
vices shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Port Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts in accordance with the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of
advertisements and marketing, promotional and advertising services,
materials, and equipment necessary
to promote and advertise the Cleveland
Hopkins
International
and
Burke Lakefront Airports, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Department of Port
Control. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is further authorized to
make one or more written contracts
in accordance with the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or all of
the following items: advertisements
and marketing, promotional, and advertising, materials, equipment and
services not the subject of Section 1
of this ordinance, necessary to promote and advertise the Cleveland
Hopkins International and Burke
Lakefront Airports, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Department of Port Control.
Section 4. That the cost of contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall be paid from Fund No. 60 SF
001 and shall also be charged
against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 129112)
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2384-02.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Johnson, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate property for the public purpose
of constructing Maplewood Park,
located at 17810 Midvale Avenue.
Whereas, the Council of the City of
Cleveland, by Resolution No. 2186-02,

The City Record
adopted November 11, 2002, declared
the necessity and intention of appropriating the fee simple property interests described for the public purpose
of constructing Maplewood
Park,
located at 17810 Midvale Avenue; and
Whereas, notice of adoption of the
resolution has been served upon the
persons in possession or having an
interest in the property; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of constructing Maplewood Park,
located at 17810 Midvale Avenue, the
following described fee simple property interests are appropriated:
Permanent Parcel No. 028-11-040
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
142 in the Provident Land Company’s Riverview Subdivision No. 2
and a part of Original Rockport
Township Section No. 3, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 95 of
Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the
Northerly
side
of
Midvale
Avenue S.W., and extending back
between parallel lines 126 feet, as
appears by said plat.
Section 2. That the Director of
Law is directed to apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction to have a
jury impaneled to inquiry into and
assess the compensation paid for the
fee simple interests described above.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2385-02.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties to enter into one or
more contracts with Cenergy Sports &
Entertainment, LLC to develop, market, negotiate and sell corporate sponsorships, for the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
professional service contracts with
Cenergy Sports & Entertainment,
LLC for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of
the several departments of the City
to develop, market, negotiate, and
sell corporate sponsorships for the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties’ programs and facilities. The Director of Law shall
approve the authorized contracts.

2627

17
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 2386-02.
By Council Members Lewis and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to enter into contract with Recovery Resources to
provide services relating to the
Employee Assistance Program; and
authorizing a three month interim
extension of Contract No. 58622 with
Recovery Resources.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Personnel and Human Resources is
authorized to enter into a contract
with Recovery Resources for the professional services necessary to administer assistance to City employees and
their families in dealing with personal difficulties, including but not
limited to family difficulties, marriage problems, financial concerns,
legal issues, alcohol and drug problems, workplace problems, emotional
and stress-related difficulties, in the
estimated sum of $150,000, for the
Department of Personnel and Human
Resources.
Section 2. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
authorized to extend the term of
Contract No. 58622 with Recovery
Resources, for a period of three
months beginning October 1, 2002,
for the employee assistance programs described above.
Section 3. That the cost of the new
contract and the extension of Contract No. 58622 shall be paid from
Fund No. 01-040201-632000, and from
the fund or funds appropriated for
this purpose in budget year 2003,
Request No. 107530.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2387-02.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment
to Contract No. 50034 with Emerald
Research Park, Ltd.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

18
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an amendment to
city Contract No. 50034, between the
City of Cleveland and Emerald
Research Park, Ltd., to extend the
term of the loan under the terms in
File 2387-02-A.
All other terms and conditions
contained in the original contract
shall remain the same.
Section 2. That the amendment
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain
the terms and conditions as the
Director deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 2388-02.
By Council Member Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 627 East 99th Street
and 630 East 102nd Street to Glenville Development Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 108-09-001
and
108-09-057,
as
more
fully
described below, to Glenville Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 108-09-001
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
55 in John Crowell’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 361, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 61
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 50 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 99th Street and extend-

The City Record
ing back 200 feet parallel as appears
by said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 108-09-057
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
105 in W.H. Van Tine, Junior,
Trustee’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 361
and 369, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 17 of Maps, Page 29
of Cuyahoga County Records. Said
Sublot No. 105 has a frontage of 40
feet on the Westerly side of East
102nd, (formerly Eldridge Avenue),
and extends back between parallel
lines 122 50/100 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2389-02.
By Council Member Jones.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 14207 Miles Avenue to
Ira H. Hansen and Mary R. Hansen.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the

2628

December 11, 2002
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 142-02-019,
as more fully described below, to Ira
H. Hansen and Mary R. Hansen.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 142-02-019
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
11 in William M. Southern’s Stanley
Heights Subdivision of part of Original Warrensville Township Lots
Nos. 61 and 71, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 16 of Maps,
Page
23
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 45.19 feet front
on the Northeasterly line of Miles
Avenue, S.E., (65 feet wide) and
extending back 162.44 feet deep on
the Westerly line, 178.09 feet deep
on the Easterly line and being 42.50
feet wide in the rear as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.

December 11, 2002

The City Record

19

Ord. No. 2393-02.
By Council Members White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend various sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended and enacted by various ordinances, relating to fees and charges.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
Section 133.30, as amended by Ordinance No. 2044-92, passed December 7, 1992,
Section 133.33, as amended by Ordinance No. 1760-02, passed September 23, 2002,
Section 133.34, as enacted by Ordinance No. 324-99, passed May 1, 2000,
Section 135.16, as amended by Ordinance No. 1133-92, passed April 26, 1993,
Section 135.332, as amended by Ordinance No. 348-93, passed April 26, 1993,
Section 195.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 284-91, passed March 4, 1991,
Section 205.03, as enacted by Ordinance No. 511-76, passed June 14, 1976,
Section 207.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 2460-93, passed June 6, 1994,
Section 213.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 2460-93, passed June 6, 1994,
Section 215.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 2587-80, passed March 2, 1981,
Section 217.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 2460-93, passed June 6, 1994,
Section 223.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 2587-80, passed March 2, 1981,
Section 225.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 2587-80, passed March 2, 1981,
Section 225.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 782-99, passed July 14, 1999,
Section 227.06, as amended by Ordinance No. 664-65, passed April 13, 1965,
Section 231.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 2587-80, passed March 2, 1981,
Section 240.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 1132-93, passed October 25, 1993,
Section 241.05, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2163-01, passed May 20, 2002,
Section 241.21, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2163-01, passed May 20, 2002,
Section 263.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 857-A-76, passed June 27, 1977,
Section 329.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 375-83, passed March 7, 1983,
Section 381.051, as amended by Ordinance No. 1654-89, passed January 22, 1990,
Section 381.052, as amended by Ordinance No. 1654-89, passed January 22, 1990,
Section 381.053, as amended by Ordinance No. 1654-89, passed January 22, 1990,
Section 381.054, as amended by Ordinance No. 1654-89, passed January 22, 1990,
Section 381.06, as amended by Ordinance No. 1654-89, passed January 22, 1990,
Section 393.11, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2704-B-83, passed March 4, 1985,
Section 395.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 1426-92, passed July 22, 1992,
Section 3103.21, as amended by Ordinance No. 1564-89, passed July 26, 1989,
Section 3105.25, as amended by Ordinance No. 53-94, passed June 6, 1994,
Section 3105.26, as amended by Ordinance No. 2370-01, passed May 13, 2002,
Section 3105.27, as amended by Ordinance No. 2913-90, passed March 4, 1991,
Section 3105.28, as amended by Ordnance No. 53-94, passed June 6, 1994,
Section 3107.10, as amended by Ordinance No. 1831-92, passed October 5, 1992,
Section 411.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 2590-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 439.021, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2743-91, passed December 16, 1991,
Section 443.10, as amended by Ordinance No. 2590-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 443.20, as amended by Ordinance No. 2590-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 445.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed June 29, 1976,
Section 445.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 2590-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 447.04, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2459-A-91, passed December 14, 1992,
Section 457.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 2603-91, passed August 19, 1992,
Section 459.11, as amended by Ordinance No. 1593-2000, passed December 18, 2000,
Section 461.14, as amended by Ordinance No. 942-83, passed June 4, 1984,
Section 473.11, as amended by Ordinance No. 2590-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 473.12, as amended by Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed June 29, 1976,
Section 505.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September 22, 1924,
Section 541.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 1831-92, passed October 5, 1992,
Section 551.111, as enacted by Ordinance No. 319-99, passed October 9, 2000,
Section 551.112, as enacted by Ordinance No. 319-99, passed October 9, 2000,
Section 551.12, as amended by Ordinance No. 773-A-80, passed December 14, 1981,
Section 551.191, as amended by Ordinance No. 676-A-82, passed June 21, 1982,
Section 551.38, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1828-90, passed June 6, 1994,
Section 555.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 1668-91, passed October 21, 1991,
Section 603.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 1464-94, passed January 30, 1995,
Section 603.031, as amended by Ordinance No. 1471-94, passed January 30, 1995,
Section 657.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 2297-90, passed November 5, 1990,
Section 670.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 586-91, passed April 29, 1991,
Section 670A.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 1585-90, passed January 7, 1991,
Section 670A.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 1585-90, passed January 7, 1991,
Section 672.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 1330-58, passed March 9, 1959,
Section 673.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 2588-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 674.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 90-96, passed March 18, 1996,
Section 674.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 1014-91, passed November 25, 1991,
Section 675.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 1428-92, passed July 22, 1992,

2629

The City Record

20

December 11, 2002

Section 675.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 623-95, passed June 12, 1995,
Section 675.06, as amended by Ordinance No. 1670-92, passed August 19, 1992,
Section 675.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 1814-92, passed February 22, 1993,
Section 675.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 1428-92, passed July 22, 1992,
Section 676.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 1304-97, passed December 14, 1998,
Section 676.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 2588-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 676A.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 234-92, passed March 9, 1992,
Section 677A.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 228-93, passed February 8, 1993,
Section 677A.21, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1053-A-80, passed January 12, 1981,
Section 680.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 2436-A-90, passed June 17, 1991,
Section 683.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 2487-A-89, passed June 18, 1990,
Section 683.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 2487-A-89, passed June 18, 1990,
Section 683A.03, as enacted by Ordinance No. 222-87, passed May 11, 1987,
Section 683A.07, as enacted by Ordinance No. 222-87, passed May 11, 1987,
Section 688.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 228-93, passed February 8, 1993,
Section 689.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 228-93, passed February 8, 1993,
Section 690.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 228-93, passed February 8, 1993,
Section 690.10, as amended by Ordinance No. 2588-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 692.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 228-93, passed February 8, 1993,
Section 692A.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 1104-94, passed June 13, 1994,
Section 694.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 2588-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 696.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 1521-67, passed July 24, 1967,
Section 698.05, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1290-A-43, passed October 22, 1945,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 133.30
Cemetery Rates
The Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties shall collect the following charges for services, space,
and supplies at City-owned cemeteries:
CEMETERY RATES:
Mon.-Fri.
Sat.
(a)
(1)

(2)

(b)
(1)

(2)

(3)

Single grave section
Adult grave
Interment
Total
Baby grave (container of 4 feet or less)
Interment
Total
Lot sections
Flush marker sections
One Grave
Family Lot (Two Graves)
Interment
Raised marker section
One Grave
Family Lot (Two Graves)
Interment
Interment in lot sections
A. Adult grave
B. Adult grave - extra deep (depth of 8 feet)
C. Interment on top of extra deep
D. Baby grave or still born on top
E. Cremated remains in urn
F. Cremated remains in vault
G. Placement of additional remains in casket
at time of burial (recording fee)

$371.00
337.00
708.00
108.00
94.00
202.00

$371.00
506.00
877.00
108.00
141.00
249.00

506.00

759.00

506.00

759.00

506.00
621.00
506.00
94.00
216.00
270.00

759.00
931.00
759.00
141.00
324.00
405.00

94.00

94.00

297.00

452.00

$ 594.00
1,188.00

714.00
1,431.00

(c)
(1)
(2)

Urn garden section
Single plot grave
Interment (includes marker setting and vault)
Saturday burials 1 1/2 times the interment charge

(d)

Veteran Section Interment

371.00

506.00

(e)
(1)
(2)

Memorial parks:
Adult (Infirmary burial - City or County)
Baby

337.00
94.00

N/A
N/A

(f)
(1)

Additional services available:
Disinterments (Monday-Friday only)
A. Adult grave
B. Adult grave - extra deep
C. Baby grave
D. Cremated remains in urn garden
E. Cremated remains - location other than urn garden

2630

243.00

1,046.00
1,114.00
297.00
358.00
229.00

December 11, 2002
(2)

(3)

The City Record

21

Setting and foundation charges
A. Markers
1. 18" x 10" (Baby)
2. 2' x 1'
3. 3' x 1' or 4' x 1'
4. Resetting: one-half (1/2) of price listed above for
replacement of same size markers
B. Monument foundation (per cubic foot)
C. Veteran stones (flat granite)
D. Flower container (installation)
Miscellaneous services
A. Opening and closing grave for inspection
1. Identify without disturbing remains
2. Remove for autopsy; replace in open grave
B. Private mausoleums: receipt and discharge
C. Highland Chapel Park Mausoleum
l. Crypts: seal or unsealed
2. Niches: seal or unsealed
D. Use of chapel for services
1. First hour
2. Each hour thereafter or fraction thereof
E. Saturday burials: one and one-half (1 1/2) times the
interment charge in divisions (b) through
(e) of this section

102.00
168.00
263.00

26.00
168.00
21.00

911.00
992.00
432.00
358.00
229.00
75.00
65.00

(g) Effective January 1, 2004, all rates listed in division (a) through (f) of this section shall be increased by
four percent (4%).
(h) Effective January 1, 2005, all rates listed in division (a) through (f) of this section shall be increased an
additional four percent (4%) over the four percent increase authorized in 2004.
(i) Charges for damages: Anyone who causes damage to the cemetery ground, including without limitation,
fences, hydrants or headstones, and who does not restore the damaged portion to its previous condition shall be
liable to the City for the City’s cost of restoration.
(j)

(k)

Highland Park Chapel Mausoleum:
Charges for resale of niches and
crypts that have been repurchased
by the City of Cleveland
1. Niches in Highland Park Mausoleum
2. Crypts in Highland Park Mausoleum
Tier Level

$1,215.00
$3,375.00

Service Charges
1. Bad Check Charge
2. Late Payment
A. Charges not received by time of interment including
checks that cannot be processed because of errors
B. Setting charges not received up to the time
stone is delivered including checks that cannot be
processed because of errors
C. Additional charge per day

$

25.00

$

33.00

$
$

33.00
7.00

Section 133.33
Parking Fees
(a)
The Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall cause to be collected fees and charges, which include tax,
at the following parking facilities in accordance with the following schedule:
(1)

Willard Park Garage:
A.
First hour or portion thereof
B.
Each additional half hour or Portion
C.
Daily maximum rate from 6 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
D.
Additional overnight charge from 11:00 p.m. to 6 a.m.
E.
General monthly rate
F.1.
Special monthly rate for City employees
F.2.
Special monthly rate for federal, state and county employees
G.
Special events (flat rate - pay enter)
H.
Charge for lost or stolen key card
I.
Returned check charge
J.
Late payment charge
K.
Early Bird Rate (time to be determined by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties

2631

$2.25
$1.25
up to $10.00
up to $10.00
up to $110.00
$55.00
$70.00
up to $15.00
$50.00
$15.00
$5.00
up to $8.00

The City Record

22
(2)

(3)

(4)

Cleveland Convention Center Garage:
A.
First hour or portion thereof
B.
Each additional half hour or Portion
C.
Daily maximum rate from 6 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
D.
Additional overnight charge from 11:00 p.m. to 6 a.m.
E.
General monthly rate (the number of key cards may be
limited at the discretion of the Commissioners of the
Convention Center and Parking Facilities)
F.
Special events (flat rate - pay enter)
G.
Charge for lost or stolen key card
H.
Returned check charge
I.
Late payment charge
J.
Early Bird Rate (time to be determined by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties

December 11, 2002
$2.25
$1.25
up to $10.00
up to $10.00

up to $170.00
up to $15.00
$50.00
$15.00
$5.00
up to $8.00

Canal Basin Lot:
A.
Daily rate from 6 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
(flat rate - pay enter)
B.
General monthly rate (weekdays
between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m.)
C.
Special events, weekdays between 6:00 p.m. and 6 a.m.,
weekends and holidays (flat rate - pay enter)
D.
Returned check charge
E.
Late payment charge
F.
Charge for lost or stolen key card

up to $10.00
$15.00
$5.00
$50.00

North
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.

up to $3.50
no charge
up to $45.00
up to $15.00
$50.00
$15.00
$5.00

Coast Municipal Parking Lot:
Daily rate (flat rate — pay enter)
City of Cleveland employees
General monthly rate — non-City of Cleveland employees
Special events (flat rate - pay enter)
Charge for lost or stolen key card
Returned Check Charge
Late Payment Fee

up to $1.85
$40.00

(b) Wherever the schedule contained in division (a) of this section specifies a maximum fee, the fee to be
charged shall be fixed by the Commissioner of Parking Facilities with the consent of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties up to the maximum specified.
(c) Monthly rate customer parking privileges at Willard Park Garage, Cleveland Convention Center Garage,
Canal Basin Lot, and North Coast Municipal Parking Lot do not include entry to these garages and lots for special events held on weekends, holidays or after 6 p.m. on weekdays.
(d) Fees collected from the Willard Park Garage, Canal Basin Lot, and North Coast Municipal Parking Lot
shall be credited to the Division of Parking Facilities Enterprise Fund for general operations. Fees collected
from the Convention Center Garage shall be credited to the Convention Center Enterprise Fund for general
operations.
(e) The Commissioner of Parking Facilities is authorized to enter into an agreement with the Commissioner
of the Convention Center for the operations, management, and collection of parking fees at the Convention Center
Garage.
(f) The Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall fix and collect the fees and charges as the Commissioner
shall determine at parking facilities not identified in division (a) of this section but under the Commissioner's
control until the Council and the Board of Control fix fee schedules for the parking facilities.
(g) Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the contrary, the Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall:
(1) Designate ten (10) parking spaces in Willard Garage located as close as practical to the entrance to City
Hall to be assigned by the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to City employees with the greatest number of years seniority as a City employee;
(2) Designate at least ten (10) parking spaces located either in the North Mall Lot or in Willard Garage for
City employees to park their vehicles at no cost for a maximum of forty-five (45) minutes when required by their
jobs to visit City Hall for a short period of time during the work day; and
(3) Designate a sufficient number of parking spaces located either in the North Mall Lot or in Willard Garage
for City employees who are employed to clean City Hall and who begin work at 3:00 p.m. or later and work later
than the closing of Willard Garage.
(h) In addition to the schedule contained in division (a) of this section, the Commissioner of Parking Facilities may enter into agreements with the sponsors of events that wish to reserve specific parking spaces in the
Willard Park Garage, the Cleveland Convention Center Garage or the North Coast Municipal Parking Lot that
provide for the payment by the sponsor of up to thirty dollars ($30.00) per parking space.
Section 133.34
Greenhouse Fees
(a) The Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties shall assess and collect fees for the use of the City Greenhouse under the following schedule for City Residents:
(1)
Photo shoots (a maximum of 4 hours)
$50.00
(2)
Wedding ceremonies and photo shoots
(a maximum of 4 hours)
$100.00

2632

December 11, 2002

The City Record

23

(b)
The Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties shall assess and collect fees for the use of the City
Greenhouse under the following schedule for non-City Residents:
(1)
Photo shoots (a maximum of 2 hours)
$75.00
(2)
Wedding ceremonies and photo shoots
$150.00 per hour,
plus rental of chairs
Section 135.16
Division of Dog Pound; Dog Warden; Spay and Neuter Clinic
(a) There is established in the Department of Public Safety, a Division of Dog Pound, which shall consist of
one Chief Dog Warden and at least one dog warden permanently assigned to each of the six police districts on
a full-time basis, and other dog wardens as the Director of Public Safety deems necessary. All of these employees shall be uniformed employees under the control and management of the Director, who shall designate the
kind of uniform to be worn and direct the operation of the Chief and other dog wardens.
(b) The Chief Dog Warden and all other dog wardens are authorized to give notice and issue citations to anyone found to be in violation of Section 603.02 or Section 603.04.
(c) There is established in the Department of Public Safety, Division of Dog Pound, a Spay and Neuter Clinic, to be administered and controlled by a Veterinarian in Charge, subject to the direction of the Director of Public Safety. City residents may neuter or spay dogs or cats for the following fees:
(1)
Cat neuter
$25.00
(2)
Cat spay
$30.00
(3)
Dog neuter
$35.00
(4)
Dog spay
$40.00
All fees shall be paid to the City of Cleveland at the time the neuter or spay operation is performed.
Section 135.332 Emergency Medical Service Charges
The Commissioner of Emergency Medical Service shall charge each user of emergency medical service the
following fees:
(a)
Three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for Basic Life Support.
(b)
Four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) for Advanced Life Support.
(c)
Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for Advanced Life Support II.
The Commissioner shall charge additional fees for other services rendered, not to exceed the City’s costs, as
the Board of Control shall from time to time establish.
Section 195.05
Certificate of Registration; Fee
Any person conducting or operating any place for entrance to which an admission charge is made shall, on a
form prescribed by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses, make application to and procure from the
Commissioner a certificate of registration, the fee for which shall be ten dollars ($10.00). The certificate shall be
valid until December 31 of the year in which it is issued. Such certificate of registration, or duplicate original
copies to be issued by the Commissioner without additional charge, shall be posted in a conspicuous place in
each ticket or box office where tickets of admission are sold.
Section 205.03
Regulation of Carrier Pigeons; Fee
(a) As used in this section “carrier pigeons” include homing and racing pigeons and shall be limited to pigeons
which have the name of the owner stamped on the wing or tail or banded on the leg with the name or initials
of the owner, or with an identification or registration number stamped on the band.
(b) When a permit has been issued by the Commissioner of Environmental Health or his authorized representative, the owner or person in charge or possession of not more than twenty-five pairs of carrier pigeons shall
be allowed to fly the pigeons for necessary exercise and training under the restraint and control of the owner
or other person.
(c) Permits for carrier pigeons shall be issued only on compliance with the following requirements:
(1) The identification mark or marks to be stamped on each pigeon or band shall be recorded with the
Commissioner;
(2) On inspection, the structure in which the pigeons are housed is found to be in compliance with regulations
prescribed by the Commissioner and is maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and in good repair; and
(3) The payment of an annual inspection fee of thirty dollars ($30.00).
(d) The keeping of carrier pigeons under a City permit shall not constitute a violation of permitting fowl at
large within the City.
(e) The requirements of the zoning regulations relating to restrictions on location of stables and poultry enclosures shall not apply to the structure in which carrier pigeons are housed, when a permit has been issued as
provided in this section.
Section 207.01
License and Fee
(a) Each owner, operator, or other responsible person before beginning and during operation of a marina shall
make an application for and receive approval of a license under the requirements of Section 3733.24 of the Revised
Code to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses.
(b) Each application for a marina license shall be accompanied by a license fee according to the following
schedule:
Number of Docks or Moorings

Fee

7-24
25-59
60-149
150-299
300-499
500 or more

$122.00
$167.00
$192.00
$262.00
$314.00
$377.00

2633

The City Record

24

December 11, 2002

(c) The Commissioner shall submit all applications for a license required under Chapter 3733 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Public Health for approval or disapproval of the application.
(d) The Commissioner is authorized to collect license fees and deposit the fees into the Marina Fund created
under Section 3733.25 of the Revised Code.
(e) The Commissioner shall transmit the appropriate amount of each license fee collected under this section to
the Director of Health for the State of Ohio for deposit in the General Operations Fund created by Section 3701.83
of the Revised Code, under the requirements of Section 3733.25 of the Revised Code.
Section 213.01
License and Fee
(a) Each owner, operator, or the responsible person before beginning and during operation of a public swimming pool, public spa, or special use pool shall make an application for and receive approval of a license in
accordance with requirements of Chapter 3749 of the Revised Code to the Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses.
(b) Each application fee for a license shall be accompanied by a combined license and inspection fee as follows:
(1) Individual public swimming pools, individual public spas, individual
public special use pools
(2) Public swimming pool, public spa, public special use pool owned or
operated by a governmental agency or tax-supported primary or secondary public school

$260.00
$105.00

(c) The Commissioner shall submit all applications for a license required under Chapter 3749 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Public Health for approval or disapproval of the application.
(d) The Commissioner is authorized to collect license fees and deposit the fees into the Swimming Pool Fund
created under division (E) of Section 3749.04 of the Revised Code.
(e) The Commissioner shall transmit the appropriate amount of each license collected under this section to the
Treasurer of the State of Ohio under the requirements of the Revised Code for deposit in the General Operations
Fund created by Section 3701.83 of the Revised Code, under the requirements of Section 3749.04 of the Revised
Code.
Section 215.03
License Application and Fee
Every application for a transient residential building license shall be on a City form and shall state the name
and address of the applicant; the nature and extent of his interest and, if the applicant is not the proprietor,
then the application shall also state the name and address of the proprietor. The application shall further contain
an accurate description of the transient residential building, its location, the number of rooms, the maximum number of guests to be accommodated at any one time and any other information as may be required by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses. The application shall be accompanied by fees for each transient residential
building under the following schedule:
Number of Rooms

Fee

0-50
51-100
101-200
over 200

$ 60.00
$115.00
$220.00
$310.00

Section 217.02
License and Fee
(a) Each owner, operator, or other responsible person before beginning and during operation of a manufactured
home park shall make an application for and receive approval of a license under the requirements of Chapter
3733.03 of the Revised Code to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses.
(b) Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a combined license and inspection fee as follows:
Trailer Park Capacity

Fee

50 and under
51 and more

$350.00
$350.00, plus an
additional $2.00 for each
individual lot in excess of fifty

The Commissioner may also collect a fee for the collection and bacteriological examination of any water samples taken from a manufactured home park in an amount equal to the cost of the collection and examinations
as determined by the Commissioner of Environment but in no event greater than five dollars ($5.00). The license
term shall be for a period of one (1) year from January 1 to December 31 of each year, and the fee shall not
be prorated for any lesser period than one (1) year.
(c) The Commissioner shall submit all applications for a license required under Section 3733.03 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Public Health for approval or disapproval of the application.
(d) The Commissioner is authorized to collect fees and deposit the fees into the Manufactured Home Park Fund
created under Section 3733.04 of the Revised Code.
(e) The Commissioner shall transmit the appropriate amount of each license fee collected under this section to
the Treasurer of the State of Ohio for deposit in the General Operations Fund in accordance with the requirements of Section 3733.04 of the Revised Code.

2634

December 11, 2002

The City Record

25

Section 223.02
License Required; Fee and Term
No person, firm or corporation shall establish, maintain, or operate any public laundry without first obtaining
a license from the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses. Every applicant shall, upon being licensed, pay a
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each year or fraction of a year. All licenses shall expire on June 30 next following the date of issue.
Section 225.04
Annual License Fees
The annual license fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for a barber shop and one hundred seventy dollars ($170.00)
for a barber school. All licenses shall expire on December 31 following the date of issuance, and no license shall
be issued except for the full license period and for the full license fee. Licenses shall not be transferable but
shall be renewable under the same terms and conditions as required for the original issuance.
Section 225.08
Body Piercing Establishments
(a) The Department of Public Health is authorized to assess the following license fees, for licenses issued
under Chapter 3730 of the Revised Code:
(1) Body Piercing Establishment only:
(2) Temporary Body Piercing Establishment
only, under Section 225.07:

$250.00
$50.00, per day

These fees will not apply to body piercing establishments that are combined with tattoo establishments. Separate
license fees, established by the Director of Public Health, apply.
All licenses issued for body piercing establishments shall expire on December 31 st of the year in which the
license is issued except those licenses issued to temporary body piercing establishments which shall expire on
the fifth day following issuance.
(b) Chapter 3730 of the Ohio Revised Code is incorporated by reference, as it now exists and as it may be
amended in the future, and any violation of those state statutes or of rules promulgated under those statutes
shall also be violations of these Codified Ordinances, and may be prosecuted by the Director of Law. The penalty for the violations shall be as established in Section 3730.99 of the Revised Code.
Section 227.06
Conditions on Which Permit is Granted; Fee
If the Commissioner of Health finds that the statements in the application are correct; that the premises intended
to be used as a day nursery are suitably located for a day nursery and adequately equipped with all necessary
heating, ventilating, and sanitary devices to insure the health and well-being of the children to be admitted to
the day nursery; that the application is made in good faith for the care and betterment of the children; that the
superintendent or person to be in charge of the day nursery is of good moral character and of sufficient knowledge,
experience, and ability to properly conduct, manage, and maintain the day nursery; that the proposed day nursery
and the premises occupied by the same comply in all respects with the requirements of this chapter; than, but
not otherwise, the Commissioner of Health shall recommend to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses in
writing, that a license be issued. The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall issue or cause to be issued
a permit authorizing the applicant or applicants in question to open and conduct a day nursery at the place
specified, which permit shall state the maximum number of children that may be admitted to or cared for in the
day nursery at one time. The fee to be paid annually to the City Treasurer for the permit shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) and no permit shall be issued except upon payment of the fee. Every permit issued under this section
shall expire on December 31 of the year in which it is issued, and no second or succeeding permit shall be issued
to any person, firm, association, or corporation, except after a reinspection of the premises, as provided for in
the case of the issuance of an original permit.
Section 231.08
License Fee
The license fee for each abortion service location shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00).
All applications shall be originally accompanied by a fee of sixty dollars ($60.00), which is no event shall be
refunded. After the Director of Public Health approves the application, the Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses shall issue a license upon the payment of the balance of the two hundred dollar ($200.00) fee. All licenses shall be for a period of one year and expire on December 31 next following the date of issuance. There shall
be no rebate for any lesser time. The license required shall be conspicuously displayed on the premises.
Section 240.03
Permit Application; Fees
(a) Every person who is required to obtain a lead-based paint removal permit shall make application to the
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses on forms prescribed by the Commissioner of Environment. The forms
shall include:
(1) The name, address, and social security number of each applicant, and if the applicant is a partnership, the
principle address of the partnership, and the name, address, and social security number of each partner, and if
the applicant is a corporation, the principle address of the corporation, the state of incorporation, the corporate
federal identification number, and the name and address of the corporation’s statutory agent;
(2) The address of the residential structure where the lead-based paint is to be removed;
(3) A description of the method by which the lead-based paint is to be removed;
(4) The date upon which the removal of the lead-based paint shall begin and the estimated duration of the
removal; and
(5) Other information as the Commissioner shall require.
(b) An applicant may file a single permit application for more than one residential structure if the application
contains all of the information required by division (a) of this section with respect to each separate residential
structure.

2635

26

The City Record

December 11, 2002

(c) The permit fee shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) for each separate residential structure at which lead-based
paint is to be removed. For an owner of a one-or two-family dwelling who will personally perform, or perform
with the assistance of only a member or members of his or her family or household, power-assisted exterior
based paint removal on a residential structure which is owned and occupied by the owner, the permit fee
be ten dollars ($10.00).
(d) On receipt of a completed application and permit fee, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses
issue, following approval of the Commissioner of Environment, a permit which shall expire when the
described in the permit is completed.

leadshall
shall
work

Section 241.05
Food Shop Licenses and Fees; Food Vehicle Permit
(a) No food shop shall be operated without the person, firm, association, or corporation conducting the business
first applying for and obtaining an annual license issued by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses. No
business vehicle used regularly for the transportation, delivery, vending, or peddling of food except a commercial
carrier transporting food incidental to other deliveries, shall transport, deliver, vend, or peddle food in the City
without the owner obtaining an annual food vehicle permit for the vehicle.
(b) Chapters 3715 and 3717 of the Revised Code pertaining to the licensing administration and enforcement of
food safety programs by the local licensing authority is adopted and incorporated by the City of Cleveland.
(c) For a food vehicle permit the annual fee shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(d) Food vehicle permits shall expire not later than the last day of February of the next ensuing year after
issuance, and they shall not be transferable except under Section 3717.46 of the Revised Code.
(e) The holder of a food service operation license as defined by state law shall not be required to obtain
a retail food establishment license except when the activities of a retail food establishment and a food service operation are carried on within the same facility by the same person or entity, then the determination
of what license applies shall be made according to the primary business of the person or entity as determined by the licensor, the City of Cleveland Director of Public Health, as described in Section 3717.44 of the
Revised Code.
(f) For a mobile food service operation or mobile retail food establishment, the annual fee shall be two hundred sixty-three dollars and forty-four cents ($263.44).
(g) For a vending food service operation, the annual fee shall be twenty-nine dollars and ten cents ($29.10).
(h) For a temporary food service operation and temporary retail food establishments, the fee shall be twenty
dollars ($20.00) per five-day event.
(i) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses may also collect fees for collection and bacteriological examination of samples taken from a food shop in an amount equal to the cost of such collection and examination as
determined by the Commissioner of Environment.
(j) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses may also collect fees for plan reviews of food shops of an
amount equal to thirty percent (30%) of the food shop license fee for the shops, except for plans pertaining to
mobile or temporary food service operations or vending locations.
(k) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall submit all applications for a food shop license to the
City of Cleveland Director of Public Health for approval or disapproval of the application.
(l) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses is authorized to collect license fees for retail food establishments and food service operations and deposit the fees into a fund created under Sections 3717.25 and 3717.45
of the Revised Code.
(m) For purposes of this section, noncommercial organizations are defined as organizations such as churches,
or non-profit organizations operated exclusively for charitable purposes as defined in division (B)(12) of Section
5739.02 of the Revised Code, provided that displayed foods are not displayed for more than seven (7) consecutive
days or more than fifty-two (52) separate days per year.
(n) For a food service operation, a penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of any license fee required by this
section or fifty dollars ($50.00), whichever is less must be paid before the issuance of the license if the required
license fee is not paid on or before the date it is due.
(o) For a retail food establishment, the penalty shall be set by Section 3717.23 of the Revised Code.
Section 241.21
Licensing Outdoor Restaurants: Procedure and Fee
(a) To provide for issuance of annual licenses by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses and to direct
the Director of Public Health to develop rules for the operations not inconsistent with state statutes and regulations, application shall be accepted by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses from restaurants, the
approval of which will allow them to serve food and beverages outdoors.
(b) Each license application shall have included with it a sketch of the premises showing what outdoor areas
are proposed to be used for the serving of food and beverages.
(c) Before any food shop may expand its operation to an outdoor area, in addition to obtaining a food service
operation or retail food establishment license, it must submit a new application for an outdoor restaurant license
and new sketch of the premises to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses and obtain approval as required
by this section.
(d) Each application shall be accompanied by an outdoor license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
(e) This section shall in no way superceded any applicable portions of City or state health regulations.
(f) On the approval of the application by the Commissioner of Environment, the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses shall issue the outdoor restaurant license. Denial of an outdoor restaurant license may be appealed
to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(g) After issuance of the outdoor restaurant license, each applicant must submit an application for a sidewalk
permit under Chapter 513 of these codified ordinances.

2636

December 11, 2002

The City Record

27

Section 263.01
Fees
(a) Fees for the examination of plans and applications for the issuance of permits, variances, and for the
original inspection and permit to operate for the installation and modification of any air contaminant source
or control equipment, within the jurisdiction of this code, and renewal of permits to operate shall be as follows:

(1) FUEL-BURNING EQUIPMENT FOR EACH UNIT
The fee should be based upon the maximum
designed heat input capacity,
A.
Of a heat input capacity of less than
2,500,000 BTU/HR
B.
Of a heat input capacity of 2,500,000
BTU/HR and less than 10,000,000 BTU/HR
C.
Of a heat input capacity of 10,000,000
BTU/HR and less than 25,000,000 BTU/HR
D.
Of a heat input capacity of 25,000,000
BTU/HR and less than 50,000,000 BTU/HR
E.
Of a heat input capacity of 100,000,000 or more

Permit to
Install or
Modify and
Initial
Permit to
Operate and
Variance

Renewal
Permit to
Operate

$ 100.00

$

50.00

200.00

100.00

500.00

250.00

1,500.00
2,000.00

750.00
1,000.00

60.00

30.00

100.00

50.00

140.00

75.00

200.00

100.00

300.00

150.00

1,200.00

600.00

2,000.00

1,000.00

80.00

40.00

200.00

100.00

400.00

200.00

800.00

400.00

1,200.00

600.00

1,600.00
2,000.00

800.00
1,000.00

Total fees for all fuel-burning equipment, except
major sources, in the above schedule in each
boiler house (room) shall not exceed $1,000 for
renewal of permits to operate.
(2) INCINERATORS FOR EACH UNIT
A.
Having a primary furnace volume of
15 cubic feet or less
B.
Having a primary furnace volume of
15 cubic feet but less than 25 cubic feet
C.
Having a primary furnace volume of
25 cubic feet but less than 35 cubic feet
D.
Having a primary furnace volume of
35 cubic feet but less than 50 cubic feet
E.
Having a primary furnace volume of
50 cubic feet but less than 100 cubic feet
F.
Having a primary furnace volume of
100 cubic feet but less than 200 cubic feet
G.
Having a primary furnace volume of
200 cubic feet or more
(3) PROCESS EQUIPMENT
Fee shall be based upon the value of X as
determined from the following equation:
X = Process Weight in pounds per hour + Exhaust
Air Ventilation in actual cubic feet per minute.
A.
For values of X of 1,000 or less
B.
For values of X over 1,000 but less
than 10,000
C.
For values of X over 10,000 but less
than 50,000
D.
For values of X over 50,000 but less
than 100,000
E.
For values of X over 100,000 but less
than 500,000
F.
For values of X over 500,000 but less
than 1,000,000
G.
For values of X of $1,000,000 or more
Total fees for all process equipment, except
major sources, in the above schedule in each
work room, shall not exceed $500 for
renewal of permits to operate.

2637

The City Record

28

December 11, 2002

(4) PROCESS AND FUEL-BURNING EQUIPMENT
Fee shall be based upon the value of Y as
determined from the following equation:
Y = Heat input in million of BTU per hour +
Exhaust Air Ventilation in actual cubic feet
per minute x
1'
1000
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.

For
For
For
For
For
For
For
For

values
values
values
values
values
values
values
values

of
of
of
of
of
of
of
of

Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y

of 1,
over
over
over
over
over
over
over

or less
1, but less than 10
10, but less than 20
20, but less than 40
40, but less than 60
60, but less than 80
80, but less than 100
100 or more

80.00
200.00
300.00
600.00
1,000.00
1,400.00
1,800.00
2,000.00

40.00
100.00
150.00
300.00
500.00
700.00
900.00
1,000.00

100.00

50.00

Total fees for all process and fuel-burning
equipment, except major sources, in the above
schedule in each work room, shall not exceed
$500.00 for renewal of permits to operate.
(5) CONTROL EQUIPMENT AND/OR APPURTENANCES
A separate permit shall be required and shall
carry the same fees as the air contaminant source
for which it is installed or modified. A separate
permit and permit fee shall not be required when
the control equipment or appurtenances are installed
as an integral part of the source or concurrently
with the installation or modification of the source.
(6) ANY OTHER AIR CONTAMINANT SOURCE
Any other air contaminant source and not
included in the above schedule

(b) Fees for the examination of applications and for the issuance of other permits, required by this code, shall
be as follows:
For each permit for a given location:
(1) For open burning, fifty dollars ($50.00);
(2) For sandblasting of buildings and other structures, fifty dollars ($50.00);
(3) For spraying of asbestos containing products, fifty dollars ($50.00).
(c) Where the nature of any process or operation or the design of any equipment is such as to permit more
than one interpretation of the values of X and/or Y in paragraph (a) of this division, the interpretation that
results in the highest fee shall apply.
Section 329.05
Fees
Any applicant submitting an application to the Board of Zoning Appeals for any hearing before the Board or
for any action by the Board shall include payment in full of the fee listed in the following schedule:
(a) Exceptions to or Variances from the Application of Ordinances Governing Zoning:
(1) Appeals relating to accessory buildings or
structures on the premises the main use is an
owner-occupied dwelling house
(2) Alterations or additions to a dwelling house
(3) Change of use of or to a dwelling house
(4) Alterations, additions, or changes of use
relating to and/or resulting in a multiple dwelling or
building of institutional, educational or assembly (not
primarily carried on for gain) occupancy or classification
(5) Alterations, additions, or change of use of
and/or resulting in a Business or Industrial occupancy
or classification
(6) Signs
(7) New construction up to and including
estimated cost of $50,000.00 (not otherwise mentioned
in this section)
(8) New construction in excess of estimated
cost of $50,000.00 (not otherwise mentioned in this section)
(9) Administrative orders or decisions not
otherwise mentioned in this section
(10) Affirmations of prior decisions
(11) Requests for rehearing

2638

$
$
$

25.00
35.00
35.00

$

50.00

$
$

75.00
50.00

$

75.00

$ 150.00
$
$
$

50.00
50.00
25.00

December 11, 2002

The City Record

29

(b) Other:
(1) Decisions or orders of administrative officials
not related to zoning
(2) Decisions or orders not otherwise mentioned
in this section

$

50.00

$

50.00

(c)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

$
$
$
$

.25
1.00
1.00
2.00

Miscellaneous:
Copies or records (per page or part of a page)
Certification of authenticity
Photographs (existing)
Photographs (to be developed)

If any application listed in this section could be construed to fit in more than one fee classification, then the
higher fee shall be paid.
Section 381.051 Fees for Permits for Fire Protection Systems
(a) The fees for permits to install, enlarge, or alter a fire protection system are established as follows:
(1) Automatic Sprinkler Review: The fee for the sprinkler review is based on the number of sprinkler heads
in the system.
SPRINKLER HEADS

FEE

1 to 20
21 to 200
201 to 400
401 to 600
Over 600

$ 65.00
$ 135.00
$ 195.00
$ 260.00
$325.00, plus $.25
per head over 600

For hydraulically-designed systems, multiply the above fee by 1.5. For systems with a fire pump, add $65.00.
Standpipes using the same supply as sprinkler systems with fire pumps are included in the sprinkler system fee.
(2) Standpipe Review: $65.00; with a fire pump or pumps, $130.00
(3) Yard Hydrant System: $65.00
(4) Carbon Dioxide Suppression System: Pre-engineered system, $65.00 per system. Engineered system, 1 to 175
pounds of agent, $65.00. Over 175 pounds of agent, $65.00 plus $.30 per pound.
(5) Halon Suppression System: Up to 35 pounds of agent, $65.00. Over 35 pounds of agent, $65.00 plus $.30 per
pound.
(6) Dry Chemical Suppression System: Up to 30 pounds of agent, $45.50. Over 30 pounds of agent, $65.00 plus
$.30 per pound.
(7) Wet Chemical Suppression System: Up to 3 gallons of agent, $45.50. Over 3 gallons of agent, $65.00 plus
$2.50 per gallon.
(8) Automatic Fire Alarm Systems: The fee for an automatic alarm system is based on the number of sending,
signaling, and detecting devices in the system. Add one hundred thirty dollars ($130.00) for a smoke control or
removal system.
DEVICES

FEE

1-25
Over 25

$ 65.00
$65.00, plus $.65 per
device over 25

(9) Manual Fire Alarm Systems: The fee for a manual fire alarm system is based on the number of sending
and signaling devices.
DEVICES

FEE

1-10
Over 10

$ 65.00
$65.00, plus $1.00 per
device over 10

(b) The services provided for the fees established by this section shall include review of the permit application,
review of the plans, and the issuance of a permit. The services shall also include the presence of a representative
of the Division of Fire at the testing of the system for a single day not exceeding eight hours. If the testing
extends beyond a single day due to continuation of the acceptance test, failure of the system, or any other cause
whatsoever, then an additional fee of one hundred thirty dollars ($130.00) shall be paid for the presence of a
representative of the Division of Fire at each additional day of testing or fraction of a day.
Section 381.052 Fees for Permits for Storage Tanks
(a) The following fees are established to install, remove, repair, or alter tanks for the storage of hazardous
substances:

2639

The City Record

30

December 11, 2002

(1) To install outdoor above-ground or buried tanks inside street or alley lines or tanks inside buildings for
storing any substance or combustible liquid other than water:
GALLON CAPACITY

FEE (EACH TANK)

Up to 1,000
Over 1,000 to 3,000
Over 3,000 to 12,000
Over 12,000 to 20,000
Over 20,000 to 50,000
Over 50,000 to 100,000
Over 100,000

$ 65.00
$100.00
$130.00
$195.00
$260.00
$325.00
$390.00

(2) To install tanks inside buildings other than high hazard occupancy use group classification for storing
hazardous substances:
GALLON CAPACITY

FEE (EACH TANK)

Up to 1,000
Over 1,000 to 3,000
Over 3,000 to 12,000
Over 12,000 to 25,000

$ 65.00
$100.00
$130.00
$195.00

(3) To install new piping for existing tanks. FEE: $65.00
(4) To remove, abandon, place temporarily out of service or otherwise dispose of a tank. FEE: $65.00
(5) To reline an underground liquid petroleum tank. FEE: $65.00
(b) The fees established by this section shall include review of the permit application, review of the plans,
and the issuance of a permit. The fees established shall also include the presence of a representative of the
Division of Fire at the testing of the tank or piping, if applicable, for a single day not exceeding eight hours.
If the testing extends beyond a single day due to continuation of the acceptance test, failure of the tank or the
piping, or any other cause whatsoever, then an additional fee of one hundred thirty dollars ($130.00) shall be
paid for the presence of a representative of the Division of Fire at each additional day of testing or fraction of
a day.
Section 381.053 Fees for Permits for Hazardous Substances and Explosives
(a) The fee for a permit to store, use, or handle a hazardous substance other than an explosive shall be sixtyfive dollars ($65.00). Each permit shall be issued for a period of not to exceed three years. In the event that a
permit to handle a hazardous substance other than an explosive is issued for a period of five days or less, the
permit fee shall be twenty dollars ($20.00).
(b) The fee for a permit to store, use, sell, give away, transport or dispose of an explosive shall be seventyfive dollars ($75.00). The permit shall be issued for a period of not to exceed one year.
Section 381.054 Special Inspection and Testing Fees
(a) The fee shall be thirty-two dollars and fifty cents ($32.50) for the Division of Fire to conduct an inspection of any facility requiring a fire inspection for a license, such as child care facilities, residential care facilities, board, and care facilities, half-way houses, group homes, convalescent facilities, and alcohol and drug facilities.
(b) The fee for the Division of Fire to conduct a flow test of a dry standpipe having no permanent water
supply shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00) and shall include up to three (3) risers. For each additional riser,
there shall be a cost of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per riser.
Section 381.06
Fees for Certificates of Qualification
Every standpipe installation, yard hydrant system, automatic sprinkler installation, or installation of other
automatic fire extinguishing equipment, electrically operated interior fire alarm system and automatic fire detecting system, shall be under the responsible charge of the owner or other person designated by the owner, who is
familiar with the operation of the systems in his charge. The person shall see that the systems are maintained
in a serviceable condition. No person shall be in charge of any system or installation unless he holds a certificate
of qualification issued by the Fire Chief and pays a fee of thirty-five dollars ($35.00) for any initial certificate
or annual renewal of a certificate.
Section 393.11
Registration and Fees
(a) No employer shall store or use hazardous or toxic chemicals unless it has submitted an annual registration
form and fee to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses. The registration form shall contain a sworn
statement that the employer has received and read the Right-to-Know Code and that it has, to the best of its
knowledge and ability, complied with all of its provisions.
(b) To cover the monitoring costs under this chapter, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses of the
City of Cleveland shall collect an annual registration fee based on the following classifications:
(1) For employers with a workplace square footage of 0 to 100,000, the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00).
(2) For employers with a workplace square footage of 100,001 to 400,000, the fee shall be three hundred and
fifty dollars ($350.00).
(3) For employers with workplace square footage of over 400,001 the fee shall be five hundred and fifty dollars ($550.00).
(4) For employers with a workplace square footage of 0 to 100,000 and ten or fewer employees, the fee shall
be sixty-five dollars ($65.00).

2640

The City Record

December 11, 2002

31

(5) For employers with aggregate toxic or hazardous chemicals of less than 25 gallons or 250 pounds, and no
highly hazardous chemicals, the fee shall be sixty-five dollars ($65.00).
(6) Where a workplace contains only one work area, the fee structure shall be based on the square footage of
that work area only.
The revenue raised by this fee schedule shall be used to defray the inspection and enforcement costs associated
with the implementation of this chapter.
(c) If, after the Fire Division issues an order requiring corrections under division (c) of Section 393.10, another
reinspection is required, then the employer shall pay a one hundred dollar ($100.00) reinspection fee, collectible
by the City of Cleveland.
Section 395.02
Unnecessary Alarms; Charges
(a) If more than three (3) unnecessary alarms occur at a particular location in a given calendar year, then
the Fire Chief shall invoice the person(s) responsible for the alarm system as identified in division (b) of this
section for reimbursement of a portion of the costs of responding to the fourth (4th ) and later unnecessary alarms
according to the following schedule:
Number of Unnecessary Alarms

Fee

4th
5th
6th or more

$ 65.00
$100.00
$130.00

(b) As used in this section and division (k) of Section 395.01, the “person(s) responsible for the alarm system”
means each owner and leaseholder, if any, of the property or properties served by the alarm system, and the
person(s) shall be jointly and severally liable for the charges assessed under this section.
(c) As used in this section, a “particular location” means a property or a group of contiguous or noncontiguous properties, whether or not under common ownership, which are under a common street address, both as to
house or building number and street name.
(d) The charges stated in this division shall be due and payable upon receipt of an invoice; except that the
charges shall be suspended pending the outcome of any hearing conducted under Section 395.03, or any appeal
conducted under Section 395.04.
Section 3103.21 Board Hearing and Time Extension Fees
When submitting an application for a hearing before the Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals,
the application shall be accompanied by fee payment in full as follows:
Type Hearing

Fee

Owner occupied single-family dwelling appeal
Single family (non-owner occupied) two and
three family dwelling appeals
Other type building appeals
Product Approvals and any other appeals
Time extension appeal

$ 15.00
$ 30.00
$130.00
$ 65.00
$ 20.00

Section 3105.25 Schedule of Permit Fees
When fees are calculated on an estimated construction or repair cost, the value of work shall include all
structural, electrical, plumbing and HVAC, interior finish, normal site preparation including excavation and backfill, overhead and profit. Architectural/Engineering fees, costs of land and off-site costs need not be included.
The value estimate of the proposed work may be determined by the Division of Building and Housing in accordance
with generally accepted methods of estimating as prescribed by BOCA or the R.S. Means Cost Data Service that
is effective on the date application is made for the permit.
NOTE: Other permit fees, such as for electrical, plumbing, HVAC, elevators and plan processing are separate.
Except for permit fees for work performed on one, two, three family dwellings, their accessory structures and
other miscellaneous items listed in division (E) of Section 3781.10 of the Revised Code, the permit fees herein
include the required surcharge pursuant to division (E) of Section 3781.10 of the Revised Code.
Minimum Fee
(a) One-Family, Two-Family, or Three-Family Dwelling Houses
(1) New buildings and additions, or parts of
same: $10.00 for each $1,000 or fraction of estimated cost
(2) Alterations and repairs: $5.00 for each $1,000
or fraction of estimated cost
(b) Buildings or Structures as Regulated by the Ohio Building Code
(1) New buildings or structures, additions to
existing buildings or structures, and first tenants' space
buildouts in new construction: $12.00 for each $1,000
or fraction of estimated cost
(2) Alterations or repairs to existing buildings
or structures: $15.00 for each $1,000 or fraction thereof
of estimated cost

2641

$150.00
$ 30.00

$300.00

$150.00

The City Record

32

(c) Miscellaneous Buildings/Structures
(1) Private garages, tool sheds, residential
antennas, and other accessory structures or buildings
(2) Fences, guardrails or barriers
(3) Swimming pools (private/residential)
(4) Effective boarding pending repairs of rehabilitation
(d) Demolition or Removal of Buildings or Structures (Consult Section 3105.16(C))
(1) For one-family, two-family, or three-family
dwelling houses or accessory structures: $10.00 for each 1,000
square feet or fraction of floor area (excluding
basement floor or cellar floor areas
(2) For buildings and structures as regulated by
the Ohio Building Code

December 11, 2002

$
$
$
$

50.00
50.00
50.00
50.00

$ 50.00
$300.00

(e) Moving of Buildings or Structures
(1) One, two or three-family dwellings
(2) Other than (e)(1) above

$300.00
$600.00

(f) Outdoor Signs and Display Structures; Other Wall Signs
for Which a Permit is Required: $12.00 for each $1,000 or fraction
of estimated cost

$ 50.00

(g) Marquees, Awnings and Canopies: $12.00 for each
$1,000 or fraction of estimated cost

$ 50.00

(h) Temporary Tents
(1) 120 square feet or less
(2) Over 120 square feet

No charge
$ 75.00 each

No fee shall be charged for tents used in conjunction with a funeral service or for religious organizations which are utilizing tents for temporary purposes not to exceed two weeks.
(i) Zoning
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

Fees (Shall be added to applicable Building Permits as follows):
Commercial and Multi-Family
Temporary Uses
Parking Lots
Signs, Fences and Appurtenant Structures

(j) Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning, and Refrigeration
(1) One, two, and three-family dwellings: The minimum
fee for any permit shall be:
A. Installation of each central heating
and/or air conditioning system(s); or
B. Repairs, alterations, or extensions of
central heating and/or air conditioning systems; or
C. Installation of each fuel-fired unit heater,
space heater, or decorative appliance; or
D. Installation of each solid fuel burning
device; fireplace, insert, woodburning stove/oven, etc.
(2) For buildings and structures as regulated by the
Ohio Building Code: The minimum fee for any permit shall be:
A. Installation of each central heating,
ventilation, and/or air conditioning unit (equipment)
B. Installation of each duct heater or reheat coil
C. Installation of each fuel-fired unit heater,
space heater, or decorative appliance
D. Installation of steam or hot water radiation
devices; each floor or level
E. Installation of each solid-fuel burning device;
fireplace, insert, woodburning stove/oven, etc.
F. Installation of fuel-gas piping; for each 100
lineal feet or fraction
G. Installation of duct work, V.A.V. boxes,
exhaust fans, exhaust hoods, fire or volume dampers,
and other connecting appurtenances: For each $1,000
valuation or fraction of job cost (Material + Labor)
(3) Installation of Refrigeration Systems: For each new
or altered refrigeration system as per following rated tons of
refrigeration (1 ton = 12,000 B.T.U.):
A. Up to 25 tons capacity
B. Over 25 tons capacity
C. For each walk-in cooler, freezer, or
dairy/deli case refrigeration system
(4) Repairs and/or alterations of existing equipment or systems

2642

$
$
$
$

40.00
30.00
30.00
20.00

$ 50.00
$ 50.00
$ 50.00
$ 50.00
$ 50.00
$ 50.00
$ 50.00
$ 30.00
$ 30.00
$ 30.00
$ 30.00
$ 13.00

$ 13.00

$ 50.00
$100.00
$ 50.00
$ 50.00

December 11, 2002

The City Record

(k) Plumbing Fixtures, Appliances and Piping: Note: Use
(1), (2), and (3) below to calculate fee: The minimum fee for any
permit shall be:
(1) For the installation of each plumbing fixture,
appliance or device such as water closets, urinals, bathtubs or
showers, sinks, drinking fountains, dishwashers, laundry trays,
clothes washers, floor drains, roof drains, hot water heating
devices, interceptors, sump pumps, air conditioning units,
catch basins, area drains, manholes and other similar
equipment, or fixtures
(2) For the installation of piping for plumbing systems:
A. Gas piping — For each 100 lineal feet or fraction
B. Drains, waste piping from plumbing Fixtures —
for each 100 lineal feet or fraction
C. Storm and/or foundation drains/sewers —
for each 100 lineal feet or fraction
D. Sanitary drains/sewers — for each 100 lineal feet or fraction
E. Water distribution piping — for each 100 lineal feet or fraction
F. Connection to potable water line for non-potable
uses such as irrigation, fire suppression system, etc.
(3) For the following miscellaneous:
A. Repairs to existing plumbing fixtures and/or systems
(l) Electric Wiring and Equipment: Note: Use (1) or (2)
below to calculate fee; the minimum fee for any permit shall be:
(1) For new construction additions, alterations to
existing buildings: For each 1000 square feet or part
(2) For each item as follows:
A. Temporary lighting and/or power
installations, or low voltage wiring systems (CATV
cable, fire alarm devices, computer devices, data
communication and other similar equipment)
B. Signs: Business I.D., advertisement, and directional, etc.:
1. For the first electrical sign
2. Add for each additional electric sign installed at the same time
C. Amusement rides and devices: each
Note: Also see Section 3105.29 - Festival and Carnival
Permit Fees for Charitable Organizations
D. Repairs to existing electrical systems
(3) Blanket electrical permit for each
year for each premises
(m) Elevators, Powered Lifts, and Moving Walks
(1) The minimum fee to install a freight or passenger elevator
(2) To which shall be added for each floor/level
traveled in excess of seven floors
(3) For each installation of moving stairways or
moving walks, any manhoists, special elevators, or stage or
orchestra lifts included under Section 3141.04
(4) Installation of any power operated dumbwaiter or conveyor
(5) Installation of any wheelchair lift or stair climber
(6) Installation of any amusement device to convey
persons in any direction as a form of amusement
(7) Any alteration or repair for which a permit is required under
Section 3141.03 for divisions (m)(1) through (m)(5) above

33

$ 50.00

$

8.00 each

$ 13.00
$ 13.00
$ 13.00
$ 13.00
$ 13.00
$ 50.00
$ 50.00

$ 50.00
$ 50.00

$ 50.00
$ 50.00
$ 30.00
$ 30.00

$ 50.00
$200.00

$350.00
$ 40.00

$350.00
$200.00
$ 75.00
$ 50.00
$100.00

Section 3105.26 Schedule of Inspection Fees
There shall be no separate inspection fees except as provided in Section 3105.27 and this section:
(a) Special Inspections.
(1) Whenever an inspection has been requested and upon inspection the work is not found to be ready for
inspection, or where the address given in the application for permit is faulty or inaccurate, there shall be charged
a fee of forty dollars ($40.00) for each inspection.
(2) For inspections required outside of regular working hours (special events, witness testing of special equipment, etc.) the fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(3) Whenever a special inspection, not a routine inspection of work being done under a permit, is requested,
there shall be an inspection fee as follows:
Dwelling units at $20.00, minimum $50.00
Other Structures at $60.00 per story
(4) Whenever an inspection is made after the compliance date stated on a Notice of Violation of the Building
Code, the Housing Code or the Zoning Code or after a compliance date determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to determine whether the violation has been remedied and the violation has not been remedied, or an additional permit is obtained for work previously permitted and the original permit has expired or was appropriately voided, there shall be charged a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each inspection, except that this fee
shall not apply to one-family and two-family owner-occupied dwelling structures.

2643

34

The City Record

December 11, 2002

(b) Annual Building Inspections.
(1) Eating Places
(2) Drinking Places
(3) Annual Inspections under Licensing Requirement
(c) Late fee, for work started prior to permit issuance:
(1) Within 72 hours of notification
(2) After 72 hours

$65.00 per occupancy
$65.00 per occupancy
$65.00 per occupancy
$100.00
$200.00

(d) Payment of charges for inspections enumerated above shall be made before any additional permits will be
issued to the permit holder.
Section 3105.27 Schedule of Certificate Fees
(a) Certificates of Occupancy. When a certificate of
Occupancy is issued under completion of a new building or other
structure; issued upon completion of an enlargement of, or
alteration to, an existing building or other structure; when no
additions or alterations have been made but there is a change
in occupancy classification of the building or other structure,
irrespective of whether or not alterations are required after inspection
$ 60.00
When issued upon request of the owner or an existing building or other structure
$ 60.00
Duplicate
$ 25.00
(b) Certificates of Approval and Certificates of Operation. A separate inspection fee shall not be required when
the Certificate is paid.

Certificate
Fee
Plumbing
Electrical work
Refrigeration systems:
New and altered installations
New and altered installations
of 1 H.P. motor
Certificate previously issued
New certificate of operation
Elevators:
First five floors travelled
For each additional floor
Residential elevator
For each additional incline lift
Limited certificate, first issue
Each renewal limited certificate
Moving stairways and moving walks
For each unit of moving stairways
or moving walks, new or altered installation
For each unit of moving stairway
or moving walks, existing installation
Certificate previously issued
New certificate
Dumbwaiters and conveyors:
For each dumbwaiter or conveyor,
new or altered installation
For existing installations
Certificates previously issued
New certificates
Amusement devices to convey
persons in any direction as a
form of amusement
For each permanent amusement device
For each temporary amusement device
Man-hoists, special elevators
and stage or orchestra lifts
included under Section 3141.04
New or altered installation
Existing installation
Certificate previously issued
New certificate

Inspection Fee:
Required
(Annual or
Semiannual)
Inspection
Before
Issuance of
Certificates

None
None
$20.00

$ 20.00

$20.00
$30.00
$30.00

$ 20.00
$ 30.00
$150.00
$ 18.00
$ 90.00
$ 60.00
$175.00
$115.00
$115.00
$115.00
$115.00
$115.00
$115.00

$
$
$
$

60.00
60.00
60.00
60.00

$ 60.00
$ 60.00
$ 60.00

$115.00
$115.00
$115.00
$115.00
$115.00

2644

December 11, 2002

The City Record

35

Section 3105.28 Plan Examination Fee Schedule
The plan examination fee is payable at the time the plans are submitted and is based on the floor area in
square feet. If plans are submitted more than one time, or if plans are revised after permit issuance, an additional plan examination fee will be charged.
(a) A fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per 1,000 square foot or fraction of that shall be charged for any plan
examined under this section.
(b) A minimum fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be charged for any plan which is under 1,000 square foot.
Projects such as parking lots, signs, or fences which have no floor area shall be charged this minimum fee.
Section 3107.10 Certificate Fee Payment; Refunds and Renewals
(a) Fees for certificates of registration and renewals shall be paid to the Commissioner.
(b) Fees shall be payable upon application for a certificate. An application shall not be deemed accepted until
the Commissioner has examined the application and determined that the applicant is qualified under Section
3107.04 of these Codified Ordinances and possesses the experience and/or training required for the certificate in
question.
(c) Fees shall not be refundable.
(d) Renewal fees shall be paid during the thirty-day period immediately preceding the expiration date of the
certificate.
(e) Where a renewal fee is required, a certificate which has lapsed because of nonpayment of the renewal fee
but which is otherwise valid may be renewed during the three-month period following the expiration date upon
payment of an additional fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each month late but no certification which has lapsed
more than three months shall be renewed.
(f) Fees for certificates and renewals shall be as follows:

Certificate

Initial Fee with
Accepted Application

Renewal
Fee

Certificates of Registration for All Trades
Limited Certificate of Registration for Fireplace Installer
Certificates of Qualification: Journeyman Plumber
Certificate of Qualification: Refrigeration Operator
Other Certificate of Qualification

$150.00
$151.20
$ 80.00
$ 30.00
$ 20.00

$120.00
$120.00
$ 80.00
$ 30.00
$ 20.00

Section 411.05
Parades; Permit and Fee
(a) No person shall parade or hold a procession in or on any streets, highways, parks, or public grounds of
the City without first obtaining a permit from the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses.
(b) No driver of a vehicle shall drive between vehicles or persons comprising a parade or other authorized procession when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade or procession.
(c) The parade or procession permit shall be issued only upon approval of the application by the Chief of Police
and the Director of the department having control of the streets, parks, or public grounds on which the parade
or procession is to be held. The permit or any order accompanying it may limit or prescribe reasonable conditions, including the hours, the places of assembly and of dispersal, the route or march or travel and the streets,
highways, or portions which may be used or occupied.
(d) Each application for a permit shall be in duplicate, each copy to be signed by the applicant, and shall be
in a form as prescribed by the Commissioner. Applications shall be filed with the Commissioner at least five days
before the date of the parade.
(e) For each permit issued under this section, a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be paid by the applicant upon
making application. If the permit is refused, the fee shall be returned to the person paying the same.
(f) Each permit when issued shall have attached a duplicate copy of the application signed by the applicant,
and each permit shall be in a form prescribed by the Commissioner prescribes.
(g) The Commissioner may refuse to issue the permit if the applicant, group, organization, or persons represented by the applicant have previously violated the provisions of a similar permit or have violated any City
ordinances or laws of Ohio or of the United States in connection with a previous parade or procession in or upon
the streets, parks, or public grounds of the City or elsewhere; or if by reason of the nature of the proposed parade
or procession or of the character and type of the objects to be promoted or for the following reasons:
(1) The time, place, size, or conduct of the parade including the assembly areas and route of march would
unreasonably interfere with the public convenience and safe use of the streets and highways.
(2) The parade would require the diversion of so great a number of police officers to properly police the line
of movement, assembly areas, and areas contiguous so as to deny normal police protection to the City.
(3) The parade route of march or assembly areas would unreasonably interfere with the movement of police
vehicles, fire-fighting equipment, or ambulance service to other areas of the City.
(4) The parade would unreasonably interfere with another parade for which a permit has been issued.
(5) The information contained in the application is found to be false, misleading, or incomplete in any material detail.
(6) An emergency such as a fire or storm would prevent the proper conduct of the parade.
(h) The permit may be revoked at any time by the Commissioner for the same reasons as those stated for
refusal of a permit, provided that notice of revocation shall immediately be given to the applicant and that an
appeal may be taken within the same time and in the manner provided in Section 403.09.
Section 439.021 Categories of Permits for Overweight and/or Oversize Moves; Permit Fees
(a) The Director of Public Service shall use the following categories for purposes of assessing fees for permits
issued under Section 439.02:
(1) Active Permit. An active permit shall be issued for a single movement over a designated route, and may
allow for return to the place of origin over the same route with approval of the Director of Public Service. An
active permit shall be issued for a duration of not to exceed 72 hours, except that a permit allowing the movement of a load in excess of 120,000 lbs. shall be for a duration of not to exceed five (5) days.

2645

The City Record

36

December 11, 2002

(2) Continuing Permit. A continuing permit shall be issued for repeated movements of the same vehicle, including any approved load and axle spacing, over the same routing between the same two locations. A continuing
permit shall be issued for a period of not to exceed 365 days.
(3) Construction Equipment Permit. A construction equipment permit shall be issued for repeated movements
of the same vehicle to and from construction work sites. A construction equipment permit shall be for a vehicle,
including trailer and/or equipment or machinery, which does not exceed twelve feet in width, and which does
not exceed the weight, length, and height limitations of this chapter and Sections 5577.02 and 5577.05 of the
Revised Code. A construction equipment permit shall be issued for a period of not to exceed 365 days.
(4) Inactive Permit. An inactive permit shall be issued for repeated movements of the same vehicle, including
the approved load and axle spacing. For an inactive permit, the route is not specified when the application is
submitted. When a given route is subsequently submitted to and approved by the Director of Public Service, the
Director shall issue a validation number, which shall activate the permit for a duration of not to exceed 72 hours.
An inactive permit shall be issued either for a period of not to exceed 90 days, or for a period of not to exceed
365 days, the duration of which shall be in accordance with the amount paid by the applicant under the schedule of fees in division (b) of this section.
(b) The Director of Public Service shall charge the following fees for permits issued under Section 439.02:
Active Permit — (single movement)

Fee

Processing fee — 72 hours or 5 days
Overweight surcharge
Overwidth surcharge (over 12')
Overheight surcharge (over 14' 6")
Return trip surcharge with authorization

$15.00
$ 7.50
$ 7.50
$15.00
$ 7.50

Continuing Permit

Fee

Processing fee — 365 days
Overweight surcharge
Overwidth surcharge (over 12')
Overheight surcharge (over 14' 6")

$20.00
$ 7.50
$ 7.50
$15.00

Construction Equipment Permit (up to 12’ wide)

Fee

Processing fee — 365 days

$15.00

Inactive Permit

Fee

Processing fee — 365 days
Processing fee — 90 days
Validation number charge (approval of routing) and return
Overweight surcharge
Overwidth surcharge (over 12')
Overheight surcharge (over 14' 6")

$15.00
$ 7.50
$ 7.50
$ 7.50
$ 7.50
$15.00

(c) In addition to the foregoing fees and charges, if a police escort is required by state law, or at any other
time that the Director of Public Service and the Traffic Commissioner determine that a police escort is needed,
the permittee shall also reimburse the City for the costs of the escort as determined by the Chief of Police.
Section 443.10
Fees for Licensing Vehicles
(a) The following annual license fees shall be paid:
For each taxicab
For each coach (capable of carrying 9 or less passengers)
For each coach (capable of carrying 10 or more passengers)

$ 75.00
$ 75.00
$175.00

(b) For licenses issued on or after October 1 in each year, only one-half of the above fees shall be paid.
Section 443.20
Fee for Drivers’ Licenses
The license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be paid for an original driver’s license, or for renewals.
Section 445.05
Fees for Sight-Seeing Cars
The following license fee shall be paid in advance for each vehicle license:
Vehicle Capacity

Fee

12 or less
13 to 20
over 20

$150.00
$200.00
$250.00

Any licensee who has paid any of the above fees for its sight-seeing cars, also shall be entitled to operate the
following vehicles as sight-seeing cars during the year: (1) vehicles for which hack or motor bus licenses have
been issued and are in effect; or (2) vehicles which are otherwise licensed for the transportation of persons for
hire in the City of Cleveland. The licensee shall pay an additional annual fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each
additional vehicle, provided the Director of Law is satisfied that the public liability insurance on the vehicle covers or is made to include the operation for sight-seeing purposes.

2646

December 11, 2002

The City Record

37

On a finding by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses that an extraordinary demand upon any special occasion requires the use of more sight-seeing vehicles by any person, firm, or corporation to whom there
has been issued one or more sight-seeing licenses for the calendar year, he may issue special permits for not to
exceed twenty-four hours on payment of a fee of one dollar ($1.00) each for the use of vehicles which are duly
licensed for the transportation of persons for hire and which carry public liability insurance satisfactory by the
Director of Law. No transfer of a license shall be permitted except with the consent of the Commissioner, which
consent shall be endorsed on the original license. The Commissioner shall permit a transfer only when it appears
that one of the cars owned and operated by the licensee is retired, destroyed, demolished, or otherwise rendered
unfit for service.
Section 445.07
Fees for Driver’s License
A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) each shall be paid annually in advance for a motor bus operator’s license of
renewal.
Section 447.04
Fees
The following license fees shall be paid to the Commissioner when the applications to which they apply are
submitted:
(a)

(b)

(c)

Carriage business license
(1) Initial license fee
(2) Annual renewal fee

$150.00
$150.00

Carriage licensee
(1) Initial license fee per vehicle
(2) Annual renewal fee per vehicle

$ 70.00
$ 70.00

Carriage operator’s license
(1) Initial license fee
(2) Annual renewal fee

$ 10.00
$ 10.00

Section 457.03
License Issuance; Renewal
(a) Public Garages. On receipt of an application for a license to operate a public garage, and payment of the
fee required by division (g) of this section, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall issue the license
on a form promulgated by the Commissioner for that purpose. No license shall be issued except to an applicant
for a property which is in compliance with the terms of this chapter and is also in compliance with division (a)
of Section 349.07, Section 349.09, and Section 350.17 of the Codified Ordinances, as applicable to the subject property.
(b) Parking Lots. On receipt of an application for a license to operate a parking lot, the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses shall transmit the application to the Director of the City Planning Commission to determine whether the facility in question complies with the substantive provisions of the chapter. The Director of
the City Planning Commission shall, within sixty (60) days of receipt of the application, notify the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses whether the facility in question complies with all of the substantive provisions
of this chapter. On notification of compliance, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall issue the
license on a form promulgated by the Commissioner for that purpose. No license shall be issued except to an
applicant for property which is in compliance with the terms of this chapter and is also in compliance with division (a) of Section 349.07, Section 349.09, and Section 350.17 of the Codified Ordinances, as applicable to the subject property.
(c) Issuance and Renewal. All licenses issued under this section shall be issued for a period of one (1) year
commencing November 1. Licenses may be renewed if an application for renewal containing the information listed in Section 457.02 is submitted to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses not less than ninety (90) days
before termination of the previous license or registration. Applications for license renewal or for the licensing of
a registered parking lot shall be accompanied by the required site plan and elevation drawing only in the following two instances: 1) in the year in which landscaping and screening compliance is required under division
(i) of Section 457.07, and 2) if a change in the parking lot renders the previously submitted site plan or elevation drawing inaccurate.
(d) License Extension. If an application for a license renewal has been submitted in accordance the provisions of Sections 457.02 and 457.03 of this chapter, and if, before the existing license has expired, the City has
not taken all administrative and legislative action required for approval of the renewal of the license (including, if applicable, the granting of an encroachment permit), the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses
shall extend the existing license on a month-by-month basis until the City has taken action as required by this
chapter.
(e) Applicability to Premises. Licenses issued under this section shall apply only to the premises described in
the application, and a separate application and license shall be required for each non-contiguous site operated.
The license shall not be assignable or transferable.
(f) Notification of Police Chief. The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall notify the Chief of Police
of each license issued under this chapter.
(g) License Fee. Each application for a new or renewal license shall be accompanied by a fee of $1.00 per
parking space.
(h) Site Plan Review Fee . Each application for a new or renewal license, including a new or revised site plan,
shall be accompanied by an additional fee of one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00).
Section 459.11
Parking Infraction Fines
(a) The fine for committing a parking infraction, unless another fine is established by divisions (b) or (c) of
this section, shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) except that the fine for a rush hour parking infraction shall be
thirty-five dollars ($35.00).
(b) The fine for violating each of the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
whether or not committed during rush hour, is fifty dollars ($50.00):

2647

38

The City Record

December 11, 2002

451.03 Statutory Prohibited Standing or Parking Places, divisions (d), (e) and (j) only;
451.15 Fire Lanes on Public and Private Property, divisions (b) and (c) only;
451.17 Snow Emergency;
451.18 Bus Stops and Taxicab Stands;
451.22 Between Sidewalk and Set-back Line;
451.23 Tree Lawn and Private Driveway, division (a) only; and
451.25 Abandoned Vehicles.
(c) The fine for violating each of the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
whether or not committed during rush hour, is one hundred dollars ($100.00):
451.21 Trucks and Commercial Vehicles, division (b) only;
451.041Physically Handicapped Parking, division (h) only.
Section 461.14
Permit Fees
The fee for a residential parking permit shall be ten dollars ($10.00) if purchased in the first six months of
the permit year or five dollars ($5.00) if purchased in the last six months of the permit year for each vehicle
applied for by an eligible applicant. There shall be a one dollar ($1.00) transfer charge for those with permits
in one residential permit parking area who move to another residential permit parking area and apply for a permit in the new area of residence. In such cases, the new permit shall expire at the same time as the former permit would have.
Section 473.11
Licensing Bicycles; Fee and Transfer
(a) No person who resides within the City or uses a bicycle in connection with employment within the City
shall operate a bicycle on any street or other public property within the City unless the bicycle has been licensed
and a license plate is attached as provided in this section.
(b) City residents who own and operate a bicycle shall register the bicycle as provided. Application for a bicycle registration shall be made to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses on a form provided by the Commissioner by each owner for each bicycle owned.
(c) When receiving proper application, the Commissioner, or his designee, is authorized to issue a permanent
nontransferable bicycle registration. The Commissioner shall not register any bicycle when he knows or has reasonable grounds to believe that the applicant is not the owner of or entitled to the possession of the bicycle. The
Commissioner, or his designee, shall keep a record of the number of each registration, the date issued, the name
of the person to whom issued, the number on the frame of the bicycle for which issued and a record of all bicycle registration fees collected. When a minor applies to register a bicycle, the minor shall furnish to the Commissioner, or his designee, a certification by a parent or guardian either on the application or on a separate form
that the information stated in the application is true.
(d) The Commissioner shall issue a license plate bearing the license number assigned to the bicycle, and the
name of the City, together with a certificate bearing the name of the owner together with the license number
and year stamped on the license plate. The licensee shall attach the license plate firmly to the frame of the permit-issued bicycle in a position that is plainly visible. No person shall remove a license plate from a bicycle.
(e) If a license plate is lost or destroyed, the Commissioner, if satisfied of the facts, shall issue a new license
plate upon application of the owner of the bicycle, and collect a fee of five dollars ($5.00). The application shall
be made within thirty days from the date a license plate is lost or destroyed.
(f) Every person buying, selling, or giving away a new or secondhand bicycle shall make a report to the Division of Police of every bicycle purchased, sold, or given away by the person, giving the name and address of the
person from whom purchased, sold or given, a description of the bicycle by name or make, the frame number,
and the number of the license plate, if any, found on the bicycle.
Section 473.12
Licensing Agents
The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses may select as many reputable City residents as he deems necessary for the convenience of the public to issue bicycle licenses in their immediate neighborhoods. He shall collect in advance four dollars ($4.00) for each license plate issued to the agents who shall reissue those licenses to
applicants for the fee of five dollars ($5.00) without further charge, directly or indirectly to the applicant. All the
agents shall comply with all the requirements of ordinances applicable to the Commissioner in the issuance of the
license plates, and in addition, shall comply with the rules and regulations as the Commissioner shall adopt.
Section 504.04
Construction Permit; Establishing Grade; Fees
(a) No sidewalk shall be improved as provided nor shall any sidewalk be repaired or relaid, unless a permit
for so doing has been obtained from the Director of Public Service. The fee for the permit shall be twenty-five
dollars ($25.00). The permit shall mention the kind of surfacing or walk to be laid, the extent of the same and
the sublot and house number, or adequate measurements identifying the location where no such numbers have
been established, in front of which the work is to be done. All stone or concrete surfacing of sidewalks shall be
subject to the inspection of authorized City inspectors, whose duty it shall be to undertake the fulfilling of the
requirements of the approved specifications for the sidewalk surfacing. For furnishing the inspection there may
be collected from the property owner an amount or fee not be exceed the cost of the sidewalk improvement.
(b) The owner of land in front of which a permit to improve the sidewalk has been given may request that the
Commissioner of Engineering and Construction establish the grade or line on which the improvement is to be made.
(c) For performing the work of establishing the line and grade for the sidewalk improvement by the Commissioner in accordance with the land owner’s request, there shall be collected from the owner a fee based on
the following rates:
(1) For each linear foot of sidewalk for which the grade is given, five cents ($.5);
(2) For each linear foot of sidewalk for which the line is furnished, five cents ($.5);
(3) For each linear foot of sidewalk for which both line and grade are furnished, seven and one-half cents
($.7 1/2);
(4) The minimum fee charged in any case shall be five dollars ($5.00).
(d) All amounts collected for inspection or engineering fees under this section shall be deposited into the General Fund.

2648

December 11, 2002

The City Record

39

Section 541.04
Sewer Builder’s License and Bond
(a) No person shall install, extend, maintain, or repair any sewer connection or do any related work without
first obtaining a sewer builder’s license from the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses.
(b) Before issuing a sewer builder’s license, each applicant shall pay a license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) and
shall submit to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses an application on the form containing:
(1) A certificate satisfactory to and signed by the Commissioner of Water Pollution Control that the applicant
agrees to comply with the Codified Ordinances and any rules and regulations promulgated by the Director or the
Commissioner under this chapter;
(2) For each applicant who has never been licensed and bonded as a sewer builder, and for each sewer builder
who has failed to renew his license and bond for a period of one year or more, a certificate signed by at least
two reputable sewer builders to the effect that the applicant is known to them to be qualified to perform the
work of a sewer builder; and
(3) A bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) with a surety company authorized to write surety bonds in the State. The bond shall be acceptable in form and content to the Director of Law, and shall state:
A.
That the licensee indemnifies and holds harmless the City from any and all loss, injury, or damage
caused by, related to, or resulting from the want of care, skill, or attention on the part of himself or of anyone
in his employ, in the prosecution, protection, or completion of any work, or by reason of any opening made,
caused, or permitted to be made by him or by anyone in his employ, or by the placing of any material in any
street;
B.
That the licensee will employ only experienced pipe layers to lay any pipe or drain;
C.
That the licensee will reimburse the City for replacing and restoring the street pavement and earth over
any opening made by him;
D.
That the licensee’s operations and work shall conform in all respects to the Codified Ordinances and
any and all rules and regulations which are now in existence or may from time to time by promulgated by the
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Division of Streets; and
E.
That if the licensee performs all of his obligations under the license and bond, the surety’s obligation
shall cease, but if the City is unable to obtain satisfaction of any of the licensee’s obligations under the license
and bond, the City may look to the surety for satisfaction.
(c) No sewer builder’s license shall be issued until the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses has received
the application and payment required by division (b) of this section, and has approved the applicant’s bond.
(d) The sewer builder’s license shall state the name of the licensee, firm name if any, address of the licensee’s
place of business, and date of issue. The license shall be signed by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses,
and shall be valid until the 31st day of December in an even-numbered year after it is issued, unless it is revoked
before that date under division (f) of this section.
(e) No licensed sewer building shall allow his name to be used to obtain any permit for the prosecution of any
sewer connection work, or allow anyone in his employ to do the work unless the licensee, or one of his regularly employed foremen is personally at the location of the work to superintend and direct the work.
(f) If the Commissioner determines that a licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter of any
rules, regulations, or orders of the Division of Water Pollution Control or the Division of Streets, the Commissioner may revoke that person’s license under Section 541.97.
Section 551.111 Waste Removal Charge for Evictions
The owner or other person having the right of possession of residential property who evicts someone from the
property shall be charged by the Director of Public Service for a portion of the increased waste disposal costs
in the sum of one hundred ninety dollars ($190.00). This charge shall only be assessed after issuance of a citation and an investigation by the Commissioner of Waste Collection, or his designee. In all such instances, garbage
shall be collected within twenty-four (24) hours after all of the tenant’s legal rights to the items have expired.
Section 551.112 Dumpster and Compactor Rentals
The Director of Public Service shall charge the following fees for the rental of dumpsters and compactors from
the inventory of the Department of Public Service:
2 yard dumpster
4 yard dumpster
6 yard dumpster
8 yard dumpster
20 yard dumpster
30 yard dumpster
40 yard dumpster
30 yard compactor
36 yard compactor
40 yard compactor

up
up
up
up
up
up
up
up
up
up

to
to
to
to
to
to
to
to
to
to

$13.30
$15.70
$18.09
$20.49
$253.03
$316.89
$380.76
$380.00
$412.69
$444.63

However, the Director of Public Service shall reduce the fees by five percent (5%) when a dumpster or compactor is rented by a City of Cleveland resident for non-commercial purposes.
Section 551.12
Certificates of Commercial Waste Collection Contract
(a) No owner of a commercial or industrial establishment shall fail to apply for, secure, and post a Certificate
of Commercial Waste Collection Contract which accurately reflects the party currently collecting and disposing
of solid waste from the premises.

2649

The City Record

40

December 11, 2002

(b) An application for a Certificate of Commercial Waste Collection Contract shall be made by the owner or
his or her authorized representative on forms obtained from the Director of Public Service. The Director may
charge of fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) to cover the cost of issuing the Certificate.
(c) The application and Certificate shall state the name and business address of the applicant, the name and
address of the party with whom the applicant has contracted for solid waste collection and disposal, and the
duration of the contract. In addition, the application and Certificate shall both contain other information as the
Director of Public Service may require.
(d) The Certificate of Commercial Waste Collection shall be securely affixed in a conspicuous place on the
premises where designated by the Director of Public Service.
Section 551.191 Waste Hauling Fee
The Director of Public Service is authorized to assess an annual fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) to be charged
for the licensing of any private vehicle engaged in the business of collecting, transporting, carrying or hauling
any solid waste.
Section 551.38
Disposal of Used Tires; Reporting
(a) Registration. No person, firm, or corporation shall accept for disposal more than five (5) automobile, truck,
motorcycle, or bicycle tires in any one calendar month in any one year unless and until the person, firm, or corporation has registered with the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses as a source of waste tires, provided
however, that all junk yards as defined in Section 325.40, repair garages as defined in Section 325.30 and businesses which repair or replace tires shall register under this section unless a sworn affidavit is submitted to the
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses from an authorized representative affirming that it does not dispose
of more than five (5) automobile, truck, motorcycle, or bicycle tires in any one calendar month in any one year.
The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall furnish a registration form for the purposes of the registration, and, upon the payment of a fee of thirty-five dollars ($35.00), shall issue a certificate of registration,
which may apply to all locations at which the registrant does business. Registrations shall be renewed annually. The form for registration shall contain the name and address of the registrant, and if a partnership, the names
and addresses of all partners, and if a corporation, the name of the corporation and the names and addresses of
the officers and the statutory agent and shall contain additional information as deemed necessary by the Commissioner of Assessments and License. Copies of all certificates of registration issued by the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses shall be provided to the Commissioner of Environmental Health.
(b) Reporting. All persons, firms, or corporations registered under division (a) of this section shall report tire
disposal activity to the Commissioner of Environmental Health by submitting a monthly tire disposal report to
the Commissioner of Environmental Health on a form promulgated by the Commissioner for that purpose. The
monthly tire disposal report form shall contain the date and time that tires were hauled off the registrant’s
premises during the previous month, and the serial numbers of each and every tire disposed of at each pickup.
The form shall also require disclosure of the identity of each waste hauler transporting tires off the registrant’s
premises, and the license tag number of each truck used to transport tires off the registrant’s premises. The
monthly tire disposal report form shall cover a calendar month and be submitted to the Commissioner of Environmental Health no later than ten (10) days after the last date of the calendar month in question.
(c) No person, firm, or corporation who disposes of tires shall fail to register as a source of waste tires as provided in division (a) of this section, or fail to submit monthly tire disposal report forms to be Commissioner of
Environmental Health as provided in division (b) of this section, or fail to provide complete information required
by the forms.
(d) No person, firm, or corporation shall engage another for the purpose of hauling waste tires unless the waste
hauler is licensed under Section 551.19 et seq. of this chapter.
(e) Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
Section 555.08
Fees
(a) For all inspections required in this section, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall collect a
fee for testing and sealing weights and measures. All charges shall conform to the following schedule:
For
For
For
For
For
For
For

For

For
For
For
For

For
For

the sealing of computer scales
the sealing of counter scales
the sealing of pre-package scales
the sealing of spring scales
the sealing of druggist prescription scales
the sealing of overhead beams
the sealing of dormant scales
(0-2,000 pounds)
(2,001 to 5,000 pounds)
(over 5,001 pounds)
the sealing of platform scales
(O-100 pounds)
(101-400 pounds)
(over 401 pounds)
the sealing of timing devices
the sealing of retail motor fuel dispenser
the sealing of retail kerosene dispenser
the sealing of vehicle tank meters
(0-6,500 gallons)
(6,501 gallons and up)
the sealing of linear measures, mechanical
the sealing of jewelry scales

$35.00
$20.00
$50.00
$20.00
$20.00
$35.00

each
each
each
each
each
each

$40.00 each
$55.00 each
$65.00 each
$30.00
$40.00
$55.00
$40.00
$30.00
$30.00

each
each
each
per site
each
each

$80.00 each
$105.00 each
$20.00 each
$20.00 each

2650

December 11, 2002

The City Record

For the sealing of heavy scales (truck, hopper, crane)
For the sealing of scanners
(0-3 scanners)
(4 or more)
Prepackage Check Weighing Fee
Taxi Meter Testing
Charge for the time used in work of sealers in special service

41
$105.00 each
$40.00 per store
$100.00 per store
$35.00 annually
$20.00 each
$50.00 per hour,
per sealer

(b) If an inspection fee prescribed by this section is not received by the Bureau of Weights and Measures within forty-five (45) days from the date it is due, a penalty of fifty percent (50%) of any fee shall be imposed in
addition to the original fee.
(c) No weight and/or measure of any kind shall be tested and/or sealed by the Commissioner unless full payment has been received for any previous testing and/or sealing of the weight and/or measure.
Section 603.03
Impounding Dogs and Cats
(a) When any unmuzzled dog or cat is found at large in violation of Section 603.02, or when any dog’s owner
or the person in charge of control of any dog, or owner or person in charge of the premises upon which a dog
is located, has violated the provisions of Section 603.04 more than three (3) times within a four (4) month period, a police officer or dog warden shall take up and impound the dog or cat in a City pound. No dog or cat shall
be released from the pound until a fee of forty dollars ($40.00) is paid to the City, and the animal has a valid
registration tag as prescribed by Section 603.05 if it has none.
(b) If a police officer or dog warden impounds a dog or cat which is wearing a license tag or other form of
identification showing the name and address of its owner, the police officer or dog warden shall immediately
give the owner notice of the impoundment.
(c) Any impounded dog or cat which is unredeemed after three (3) days from the later of the date of impoundment or the date upon which notice of impoundment was given may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of upon
order of the Director of Public Safety. For purposes of this division “otherwise disposed of” includes sale of the
animal to a suitable buyer for an amount not to exceed the City’s cost of boarding the animal.
(d) The owner, upon redeeming a dog or cat being held at the kennel pending the outcome of a court action
or other hearing regarding a violation of any of the provisions in this chapter shall pay a fee of ten dollars
($10.00) per day for each day the animal was boarded at the kennel. This charge shall be in addition to any
other repayments that may be owed under this chapter.
(e) Payment of charges for redeeming a dog or cat which was impounded because it was found in violation
of Section 603.02 shall not exempt the owner of the dog or cat from prosecution under that section.
(f) Any fee established under this section may be waived by the Director of Public Safety if the owner of the
impounded animal is determined by the Director to be indigent, the owner has never before received the waiver,
and, including the impounded animal, there is only one animal in the owner’s household.
Section 603.031 Adoption of Dogs and Cats from the City Kennel
(a) Every dog or cat over six (6) months of age adopted from the City Kennel shall be spayed or neutered at
the Spay and Neuter Clinic before release. The cost of the operation shall be borne by the person adopting the
animal and is in addition to any adoption fee imposed by the Dog Warden.
(b) A person wishing to adopt a dog or cat under the age of six (6) months shall sign an agreement stating
that the dog or cat shall be spayed or neutered at the Spay and Neuter Clinic or at an appropriate outside animal hospital within seven (7) days of a date specified on the agreement, when the animal reaches between six
(6) and nine (9) months of age. In addition to any adoption fee imposed by the Dog Warden, a thirty dollar
($30.00) fee shall be paid at the time of the adoption, to be held until the animal is brought back to be spayed
or neutered, or until proof of the operation is established with the Dog Warden. The thirty dollar ($30.00) fee
shall either: (1) be used to cover the cost of the operation when the animal is brought back to the Spay and
Neuter Clinic for the operation; or (2) be returned to the pet owner upon production of proof of the operation at
an outside facility. If the animal is not spayed or neutered within the set time period, or within the date specified in the agreement, the owner of the animal shall forfeit the thirty dollar ($30.00) fee.
(c) Any fee established under this section may be waived by the Director of Public Safety if the person adopting the animal is determined by the Director to be indigent, the person adopting has never before received the
waiver, and, including the adopted animal, there is only one animal in the adopting person’s household.
Section 657.05
Registration of Motor Vehicle Repair Persons Fee; Renewal
(a) No motor vehicle repair person shall perform repairs without registering with the Director under this section.
(b) Every motor vehicle repair person desiring to perform repairs within the City shall apply to the Director
for a certificate of registration on forms prescribed by the Director. The forms shall include:
(1) The name, address, phone number, birth date, and social security number of the motor vehicle repair person;
(2) The principal occupation and place of business of the motor vehicle person for the five (5) years immediately before the date of the application;
(3) The name of the repair facility where the motor vehicle repair person is employed; and
(4) Any other related information at the Director requires.
(c) The annual registration fee for a motor vehicle repair person shall be twenty dollars ($20.00). On receipt
of a completed application and the annual fee, the Director shall issue a certificate of registration which, regardless of the date issued, shall cover the period of July 1 to June 30.
(d) The certificate of registration issued under this section shall be permanently and conspicuously displayed
at the location where the motor vehicle repair person performs repairs.

2651

The City Record

42

December 11, 2002

Section 670.04
Rules and Regulations; Authority of Guards; Fees; Bond and Insurance
(a) The Director of Public Safety is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter. Proposed rules and regulations and amendments shall be filed
with the Clerk of Council, and letters noticing this fact shall be sent to each Council member. The rules and regulations shall take effect on the thirtieth day following the filing with the Clerk, unless prior to that day Council adopts a resolution of disapproval.
(b) The Director may designate the property or the geographical area of the City within which an armed security guard commissioned by the City may exercise his or her authority. Each armed security guard so commissioned has the power to arrest a person committing a misdemeanor in his or her presence, and has any other
authority as the Director may direct by the rules and regulations mentioned in division (a) of this section, subject to all ordinances, the City Charter and all applicable State and Federal laws.
(c) Unless excepted under division (c) of Section 670.01, each armed security guard shall give bond, by a bonding company authorized to do business in the State, in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000) to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Safety and the Director of Law, and shall pay a license fee of eighty-five dollars
($85.00) for the first year and a renewal fee of eighty-five dollars ($85.00) for each year after that.
(d) Any applicant for an armed security guard commission shall pay a fee of thirteen dollars ($13.00) for each
use of the City’s police-firing range for the purpose of passing a weapons qualification test.
(e) Unless excepted under division (c) of Section 670.01, each private security service shall submit evidence of
comprehensive general liability insurance coverage, as provided in division (a)(4)[A(1)(d)] of Section 4749.03 of
the Revised Code and evidence of a license issued under Chapter 4749 of the Revised Code.
Section 670A.02 Unnecessary Alarms; Charges
If more than two (2) unnecessary alarms occur at a particular location in a given calendar year then the Chief
of Police shall invoice the alarm system user in the sum of one hundred thirty dollars ($130.00) for reimbursement of a portion of the costs of responding to the third and any subsequent unnecessary alarm.
The charges shall be due and payable upon receipt of an invoice, except that the charges shall be suspended
pending the outcome of any hearing conducted under Section 670A.05, or any appeal conducted under Section
670A.06.
Section 670A.03 Registration of Alarm System Users
(a) Each alarm system user shall register with the Division of Police using forms designated by the Chief of
Police for this purpose, and shall provide the name of the user, the location of the premises on which the alarm
system is in operation, and other information as the Chief of Police shall require.
(b) Each alarm system user on whose premises an alarm system is in operation on the effective date of this
section shall initially register within ninety (90) days of the effective date of the section. Each alarm system
user on whose premises an alarm system is placed in operation after the effective date of this section shall initially register not later than the date on which the system is placed in operation.
(c) After the initial registration required by division (b) of this section, each alarm system user shall re-register between June 1 and June 30, inclusive, of each calendar year after the calendar year in which the initial
registration is made.
(d) Each alarm system user shall pay a fee of twenty-five ($25.00) for each registration or re-registration
required by this section.
(e) No person shall fail to register or re-register as an alarm system user as required by this section.
Section 672.02
License Issuance; Fee
Before December 1st of the year in which the sale is to take place, an applicant for the license required by
Section 672.01 shall file an application with the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses on forms provided by
the Commissioner. The forms shall include the name and address of the person, firm, or corporation on whose
behalf the sale is to be conducted, the dates during which the sale will take place, the location where the sale
will take place, the approximate value of the trees proposed to be sold at the sale and other information as the
Commissioner reasonably requires. The Commissioner, when satisfied as to the truth of the application, shall issue
a license for the sale of Christmas trees for a period not exceeding thirty days. Any person, firm, or corporation
to whom a license is granted shall pay a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) to the Commissioner.
Section 673.03
License Fees
Each application for a license or license renewal for any thirty-day period or less shall be accompanied by the
following fee:
Itemized Inventory

Fee

$5,000 or less
$5,001 to $10,000
$10,001 to $25,000
More than $25,000

$ 50.00
$ 75.00
$100.00
$125.00

Section 674.04
Handgun Owner’s Identification Card; Application; Prohibitions
(a) Application for an identification card shall be made in writing, and shall be accompanied by an application fee of twelve dollars ($12.00) which shall be paid into the treasury of the City, with a separate accounting
made for it. If it does not appear upon investigation that the applicant is prohibited by this section from being
issued an identification card, the Chief of Police shall issue an identification card to the applicant no sooner than
seven (7) days and no more than sixty (60) days after the date of application.
For purposes of procuring an identification card, any and all forms and applications required shall be available, and may be filled out at the Central Police Station or any district police station.

2652

December 11, 2002

The City Record

43

(b) All handgun identification cards issued under this section shall be entitled “City of Cleveland, Ohio, Handgun Owner’s Identification Card,” be serially numbered according to a system devised by the Chief of Police; bear
the date of issue, the date of expiration, the name of the Chief of Police, and the applicant’s name, home address,
birth date, physical description, and full face photograph; and shall be signed by the holder. A copy of each identification card shall be retained by the Chief, together with a copy of the application, which documents shall be
maintained on permanent file by the Chief and shall be confidential and shall not be deemed a public record nor
be disclosed to unauthorized persons.
(c) An identification card shall expire three (3) years after the birthday of the applicant that follows the date
of issuance.
(d) An identification card shall not be issued to:
(1) A person now or subsequent prohibited by Section 2923.13 of the Revised Code from knowingly acquiring,
having, carrying, or using any firearm or dangerous ordnance;
(2) A person under twenty-one (21) years of age;
(3) A person convicted of an illegal use or possession of narcotics;
(4) A person with more than one conviction of being drunk and disorderly or driving a motor vehicle while
intoxicated, either of which occurs within one (1) year before the date of application;
(5) Any person with more than one conviction of a misdemeanor involving the use of force and violence, or
the threat of the use of force and violence against the person of another within two (2) years before the application for the identification card.
(e) No person shall knowingly give any false information in making application for an identification card, and
no person shall use or attempt to use an identification card to purchase, own, possess, receive, have on or about
his person, or use any handgun, knowing the identification card belongs to another, or knowing it was obtained
by means of false information, or when it is void by reason of the holder becoming a member of the class of
persons prohibited by division (d) of this section from being issued an identification card.
(f) A possessor of an identification card shall become ineligible to possess such a card if that person becomes
one of that class of persons to whom an identification card cannot be issued under division (d) of this section,
then that person shall immediately forfeit the card and return it to the Chief of Police. Any and all handguns
owned by that person or in their possession shall be confiscated and disposed of by the Division of Police as
provided in Section 674.03.
Section 674.05
Registration of Handguns; Application; Fee
(a) Application for a handgun registration card shall be made in writing by the person claiming to be the
owner of the handgun to be registered at any office where identification cards may be issued under Section 674.04.
The application shall be accompanied by an application fee of two dollars ($2.00) for each handgun to be registered, which shall be paid into the Treasury of the City, with separate accounting made for it. When satisfied
that the applicant holds a valid identification card and is not in that class of persons prohibited from holding
the same, a registration card shall be issued to the applicant no sooner than three (3) days and no more than
sixty (60) days after the date of application.
(b) All registration cards issued under this section shall be entitled “City of Cleveland, Ohio, Handgun Registration Card;” be serially numbered according to a system devised by the Chief of Police; bear date of issue, the
name of the Chief of Police, the applicant’s name, home address, identification card number, the signature of the
applicant; and contain the name, type, caliber, and serial number of the handgun. A copy of each registration
card shall be retained by the Chief, together with a copy of the application, which documents shall be maintained
on permanent file by the Chief and shall not be deemed a public record nor be disclosed to unauthorized persons.
(c) Any person who sells or otherwise transfers possession of a registered handgun shall, within five days of
the date of transfer of possession of the handgun, surrender the registration card for the handgun with the name,
address, or social security number, and identification card number, if required by law, of the buyer endorsed on
it, to any office where identification cards are issued, and obtain a receipt for it. The office receiving the same
shall immediately cancel the registration card.
Section 675.02
Peddler’s License Required; Application
(a) No person shall engage in peddling anywhere in the City without a peddler’s license issued under Section
675.03. The issuance of a peddler’s license to a person shall not be deemed to authorize agents or employees of
the person to peddle without a license.
(b) The application for the license required by division (a) of this section shall be made to the Commissioner
on forms prescribed by the Commissioner. The application shall include the following information:
(1) the name and address of the applicant;
(2) a detailed description of the goods, wares, merchandise, food, or beverages which the applicant intends to
sell; and
(3) other information as the Commissioner deems necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(c) In addition to the application required by division (a) of this section, each applicant for a peddler’s license
shall furnish the following:
(1) two (2) photographs of the applicant taken within thirty (30) days before the date of application and of
a size designated by the Commissioner; and
(2) if the applicant will be peddling food or beverages, a copy of the applicant’s food service license.
(d) The annual license fee shall be sixty dollars ($60.00) which shall cover the period beginning August 1 and
ending July 31 of the following year.
Section 675.05
Permit; Peddling on Private Property
(a) Application. The application for the permit required by division (a) of Section 675.04 shall be made to the
Commissioner. The application shall contain the following:
(1) the peddler's name, address and peddler's license number;
(2) the name and address of the owner of the private property on which the peddler intends to peddle;

2653

44

The City Record

December 11, 2002

(3) if the peddler is the owner of the private property, documentation of the peddler's ownership, and if the
peddler is not the owner of the private property, documentation, signed by the property owner, of the peddler's
right to peddler on the property;
(4) the address of the private property on which the peddler intends to peddle;
(5) a statement of the duration of the proposed peddling activity and whether the applicant is seeking an annual permit or a short-term permit;
(6) a description of the vending device, if any, from which the peddler intends to peddler, including its size
and the distance from the vending device to public sidewalks, parking lots, driveways, and other areas used or
usable for vehicular travel or parking;
(7) a description of proposed trash storage and waste disposal methods, and a description of any electrical and
water connections and any fuels or electrical generators to be used on the premises;
(8) unless the application is for a short-term peddle permit, a site plan drawn to scale and which notes relevant dimensions, showing the proposed vending device, if any, and the location of the proposed vending device
in relation to all lot lines, sidewalks, curbs, structures, driveways, aisles, parking spaces, fences, walls, landscaping, catch basins, and other features of the subject property, as well as showing the proposed or existing
location of vehicular barriers and the required clear zone area; and
(9) unless the application is for a short-term peddling permit, if the applicant proposes to peddle on a property located in a Public Land Protective District, a Business Revitalization District, or a Landmark District, the
applicant shall also submit color photographs showing all sides of the vending device, if any, and a scaled drawing showing all proposed signs and decorative elements, including their placement, material, and color.
(b) Council Notification. On receipt of a permit application, the Commissioner shall notify the Council member
in whose ward the proposed permit location lies that the application has been received.
(c) Location of Vending Devices. No person shall locate a vending device on private property contrary to the
requirements of this division.
(1) Sidewalk Setback. Except as provided in this division, no vending device shall be located on private property closer than ten (10) feet from any public sidewalk, as measured from the sidewalk to the closest point on
the vending device. The vending device, however, may be located closer than ten (10) feet to a public sidewalk
if the vending device is set back at least twenty (20) feet from the inside edge of the tree lawn or, if no tree
lawn exists, at least twenty (20) feet from the outside edge of the curb.
(2) Clear Zone. No peddling device shall be located in a parking lot, driveway, or other area used or usable
for vehicular travel or parking, or within ten (10) feet of any vehicular area, unless a clear zone conforming to
the requirements of this division is created to separate the peddling activity from any vehicular use. The clear
zone required by this division shall consist of an area around the vending device from which vehicles are excluded, extending at least ten (10) feet in each direction from the vending device.
Except for peddling conducted under a short-term peddling permit, the perimeter of the clear zone shall be
defined by means of vehicular barriers consisting of wooden, metal, or masonry bollards installed in the ground.
The bollards shall be at least four (4) inches in diameter and three (3) feet in height, with a maximum spacing of five (5) feet. One opening of not more than ten (10) feet, closed by a removable chain, shall be permitted for necessary access to the peddling area. No vehicular barriers shall be required along a public sidewalk in
proximity to a vending device if vehicular access to the area is prevented by the vehicular barriers located along
other sides of the clear zone. Vehicular barriers other than bollards may be permitted by the Director of the City
Planning Commission, if the barriers are equally effective to the purposes of this division and are appropriate
in design, as determined by the Director.
For peddling conducted under a short-term peddling permit, the clear zone required by this division shall be
defined by means of fencing, stanchions and chains, traffic control cones, traffic control barrels, or other means
sufficient and to apprise an ordinarily observant motorist of the existence of the clear zone.
(3) Ingress and Egress. No vending device shall be located to impede ingress to or egress from any structure,
nor be located within ten (10) feet of a fire exit or escape.
(d) Building and Housing Referral. The Commissioner shall refer all permit applications to the Commissioner
of Building and Housing for review and approval. As part of the review, the Commissioner of Building and Housing shall determine whether or not the property on which the proposed peddling is to be conducted is in a Public Land Protective District, a Business Revitalization District, or a Landmark District, and shall report that determination to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses. The Commissioner of Building and Housing shall not
approve the application unless he or she finds that no provisions of the City's Building Code or Zoning Code
will be violated by issuance of the permit, including without limitation, the following:
(1) set back requirements;
(2) use restrictions;
(3) if the peddler intends to operate from a “structure” within the meaning of the Building Code, those provisions of the Building Code applicable to “structures”; and
(4) if the peddler intends to operate from private property that is a parking lot, those portions of the Zoning
Code that require that a specified number of parking spaces be available for the use of particular business.
(e) Design Review. If the peddler proposes to operate on a property which is located in a Public Land Protective District or Business Revitalization District, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall refer the
permit application to the City Planning Commission for design review and approval. In the case of a property
located in a Landmark District, the referral shall be made to the Landmarks Commission. Design review shall
not be required if the peddler is proposing to peddle under a short-term peddling permit.
(1) In reviewing the application, the City Planning Commission or Landmarks Commission, as applicable, shall
determine the appropriateness of any vending devices proposed to be used with respect to the following factors:
A.
physical condition and state or repair;
B.
compatibility with nearby structures in terms of color, placement, heights, and general design;
C.
obstructions to or conflicts with vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
D.
availability of electrical connections, and procedures for garbage and waste disposal; and
E.
impacts on scenic views.

2654

December 11, 2002

The City Record

45

(2) The Director of the City Planning Commission or Secretary of the Landmarks Commission shall transmit
the Commission’s determination to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses within thirty (30) days of the
referral of the application unless the Commission conducting the review has granted the applicant an extension
in order to allow for submission of additional materials or revisions. The Commissions may seek advice from any
designated local design review advisory committee.
(f) Short-Term Permits. If the peddling activity is proposed to be conducted for a period of seven (7) days or
less, the Commissioner may issue a short-term peddling permit, except that if any person or persons have obtained
a short-term peddling permit for a particular location on two prior occasions in a given permit year, which shall
commence August 1 and end July 31 of the following year, then no person shall be issued a third or subsequent
short-term peddling permit for the same location in that permit year. As used in this division, a “particular location” shall mean a property or group of contiguous or noncontiguous properties, whether or not under common
ownership, which are under a common street address, both as to house or building number and street name.
(g) Permit Issuance and Fee. On receipt of a completed application approved by the Commissioner of Building
and Housing and approved, if required, by the City Planning Commission or the Landmarks Commission, and on
receipt of the applicable permit fee established by this division, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses
shall issue a permit which shall cover either a period of seven (7) days or a period of one year, commencing
August 1 and ending July 31 of the following year. The fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a sevenday permit and two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a one-year permit.
(h) Display of Permit. The permit shall be kept on the vending device, truck, or structure at all times during
which the peddler is engaged in peddling, and shall contain the following information:
(1) the peddler's name and address;
(2) the address of the private property on which the peddler is authorized to peddle;
(3) the name and address of the owner of the private property;
(4) a description of the vending device, truck, or temporary structure, if any, from which peddling is authorized including its size; and
(5) the permit number and permit expiration date.
(i) “Vending Device” Defined. As used in this section, “vending device” has the same meaning as in Section
675.01, and shall also include temporary structures, trailers, and other vehicles, carts, stands, and other devices
from which peddling can be conducted, or which can be used to display goods.
Section 675.06
Permit: Zones Within the Central Business District
(a) In addition to the temporary sidewalk occupancy permits issued under Chapter 508, the Director of Public
Service is authorized to issue permits to peddle in zones in the Central Business District established by the
Director in which the holders of the permits may peddle on such days, at such times of day, and under the
conditions that the Director determines. The zones shall be created by regulation taking into account the following
factors:
(1) pedestrian and vehicular traffic patterns, including possible congestion during special events and sporting
events;
(2) proximity to special events and sporting events occurring in the Central Business District and at the
lakefront;
(3) proximity to retail establishments; and
(4) other factors deemed relevant by the Director of Public Service.
No food or beverage, except as authorized in the rules and regulations promulgated under division (e) of this
section, may be peddled by a person holding a permit issued under this division.
(b) The application for the permit authorized by division (a) of this section shall be made to the Director of
Public Service on forms prescribed by the Director. The application shall contain the following:
(1) the peddler’s name, address, and peddler’s license number;
(2) a description of the vending device, truck, or temporary structure, if any, from which the applicant intends
to peddler, including its size;
(3) the zone or zones for which a permit is sought; and
(4) a description of the items to be peddled.
(c) On receipt of a completed application and an annual permit fee of one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00)
per zone or a daily permit fee of thirty dollars ($30.00), the Director of Public Service shall issue the appropriate
permit. An annual permit shall cover the period beginning August 1 and ending July 31 of the following year.
(d) The permit shall be kept on the vending device, truck, or structure at all times during the time the peddler
is engaged in peddling and shall contain the following information:
(1) the peddler’s name and address;
(2) a statement of the zone or zones in the Central Business District to which the peddler is restricted;
(3) a description of the vending device, truck, or temporary structure, if any, from which peddling is authorized,
including its size; and
(4) the permit number and permit expiration date.
(e) The Director of Public Service may issue rules and regulations to carry out the purposes of this section.
Section 675.07
Permit; Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Outside the Central Business District
(a) The application for the permit required by division (d) of Section 675.04 shall be made to the Director of
Public Service on forms prescribed by the Director. On receipt of a permit application, the Director of Public
Service shall notify the Council member in whose ward the proposed permit location lies that the application has
been received. The application shall contain the following:
(1) the peddler’s name, address, and peddler’s license number;
(2) a sketch and narrative indicating the location for which the permit application is being made, with sufficient
detail to enable the Director of Public Service to verify the placement of the temporary vending device in
accordance with the criteria contained in Section 675.09;
(3) a description of the vending device, truck, or temporary structure, if any, from which the applicant intends
to peddle, including its size; and

2655

46

The City Record

December 11, 2002

(4) a copy of an ordinance of Council specifying the location described in division (a)(2) of this section and
authorizing the peddler to peddle from that location.
(b) On receipt of a completed application and a permit fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), the Director of
Public Service shall issue a permit which shall cover the period beginning August 1 and ending July 31 of the
following year.
(c) The permit shall be kept upon the vending device, truck, or structure at all times during which the peddler is engaged in peddling, and shall contain the following information:
(1) the peddler’s name and address;
(2) the address or description of the location that the peddler intends to peddle;
(3) the number and passage date of the ordinance described in division (a)(4) of this section;
(4) a description of the vending device, truck, or temporary structure, if any, from which peddling is authorized
including its size; and
(5) the permit number and permit expiration date.
Section 675.08
Permit: Mobile Peddling Outside the Central Business District
(a) The application for the permit required by division (e) of Section 675.04 shall be made to the Director of
Public Service on forms prescribed by the Director. On receipt of a permit application, the Director of Public Service shall notify the Council member or members in whose ward or wards the peddler intends to peddle that the
application has been received. The application shall contain the following:
(1) the peddler’s name, address, and peddler’s license number;
(2) a statement that the peddler intends to move continuously from place to place on those highways, streets,
or sidewalks that are located outside of the Central Business District. The statement shall specify the ward or
wards in which the peddler intends to peddle;
(3) a copy of the ordinance of Council specifying the ward or wards in which the peddler is authorized to
peddle; and
(4) a description of the vending device, truck, or temporary structure, if any, from which the applicant intends
to peddle, including its size.
(b) On receipt of a completed application and a permit fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), the Director of
Public Service shall issue a permit which shall cover the period beginning August 1 and ending July 31 of the
following year.
(c) The permit shall be kept upon the vending device, truck, or structure at all times during which the peddler is engaged in peddling and shall contain the following information:
(1) the peddler’s name and address;
(2) the ward or wards in which the peddler is authorized to peddle;
(3) the number and passage date of the ordinance described in division (a)(3) of this section;
(4) a description of the vending device, truck, or temporary structure, if any, from which peddling is authorized including its size; and
(5) the permit number and permit expiration date.
Section 676.04
License Fees
The operator of a junk cart shall pay an annual license fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each junk cart
operated. Every junk dealer shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each place
of business licensed. Every scrap metal processor shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) for each place of business licensed. All junk cart licenses, junk dealer licenses, and scrap metal processor licenses shall be issued as of September 1 and expire on August 31 next succeeding the date of issuance.
Section 676.07
Secondhand Dealer’s License Fee
The annual license fee for each dealer in second-hand articles shall be one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00)
All licenses shall be issued as of October 1 each year and expire on September 30 next succeeding the date of
issuance.
Section 676A.02 License Required; Application; Fees
(a) No person shall operate a motor vehicle repair garage without a license issued under this chapter, which
license shall be permanently and conspicuously displayed at the location to which it applies.
(b) Every person desiring to operate a motor vehicle repair garage shall make application to the Commissioner
for a license on forms prescribed by the Commissioner. The forms shall include:
(1) The name, address, and social security number of each applicant, each partner in the case of a partnership
and each officer and Director in the case of a corporation;
(2) The name and address of the motor vehicle repair garage; and
(3) Other information as the Commissioner of Building and Housing may require to ensure that the applicant
meets the requirements of these Codified Ordinances as they relate to motor vehicle repair garages.
(c) A business operating more than one motor vehicle repair garage may file a single license application so
long as the application contains all of the information required by division (b) of this section with respect to
each separate location, and, in addition, indicates the manager of each location.
(d) On receipt of a completed license application, the Commissioner shall inspect each location for compliance
with the provisions of Chapter 657 and shall transmit the application to the Commissioner of Building and Housing, who shall verify the existence of a valid Certificate of Occupancy for each location and inspect each location for compliance with Section 676A.03.
No motor vehicle repair garage license shall be issued or renewed until the Commissioner of Building and Housing certifies to the Commissioner that the applicant is in compliance with Section 676A.03 and the Commissioner
determines that the applicant is in compliance with Chapter 657.
(e) The annual license fee for a motor vehicle repair garage shall be seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for each separate location. On receipt of a completed application, the certifications referred to in division (d) of this section
and the annual fee, the Commissioner shall issue an annual license which shall cover the period of June 1 to
May 31.

2656

December 11, 2002

The City Record

47

Section 677A.03 License Application
(a) An application for the license required by Section 677A.02 shall be made in person at the office of the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses on forms provided and information as the Commissioner may deem necessary shall be given under oath. It shall be mandatory rejection of the application or revocation of an issued
license if any of the required application information is misrepresented or untrue.
(b) Each application for the license shall be accompanied by a fee of one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00)
for the original license and thirty dollars ($30.00) for each additional license if a person licenses more than one
vehicle. Each application for the replacement of a lost, stolen, or missing license shall be accompanied by a fee
of thirty dollars ($30.00).
Section 677A.21 License Fees
A license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be paid for an original driver’s license or for a renewal of a license.
Section 680.03
Notice of Location; Permit Application; Insurance; Renewal; Fee
(a) Before the installation or placement of a newspaper dispensing device within the public right-of-way, the
owner of the device shall file a permit application with the Director containing the following information:
(1) The name, address, and telephone number of the owner;
(2) The name, address, and telephone number of the individual or other person to whom the City shall serve
in person or by mail any notice or order required by this chapter;
(3) A sketch and narrative indicating the location and dimensions of each newspaper dispensing device for
which permit application is being made, with sufficient detail to enable the Director to verify that the installation
and placement of a newspaper dispensing device in accordance with the permit application will meet the criteria
contained in Section 680.05.
(b) One application may be submitted to include any number of newspaper dispensing devices and shall be
signed by the owner.
(c) A fifty dollar ($50.00) fee for each newspaper dispensing device must accompany the permit application to
defray the expenses incident to the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
(d) In addition to submitting the permit application and fee required by divisions (a) and (c) of this section,
the owner of a newspaper dispensing device who seeks a permit shall:
(1) provide the Director with the insurance documentation required by division (e) of this section; and
(2) demonstrate to the Director’s satisfaction that the device weighs at least one hundred sixty (160) pounds
when empty.
(e) The owner of each newspaper dispensing device shall hold the City harmless from any and all liability,
for any reason whatsoever, occasioned upon the installation and use of each device, other than liability arising
from any negligent act or omission which is solely attributable to the City, and shall furnish, at the owner’s
expense, general commercial liability insurance as shall protect the owner and the City from all claims for damage to property or bodily injury, including death, which may arise from operation under the permit or in connection therewith. The policy shall name the City as an additional insured, shall be in an amount of not less
than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) combined single limit for any injury to persons and/or damage to
property and shall provide that the insurance coverage shall not be cancelled or reduced by the insurance carrier
without thirty (30) days’ prior written notice to the City. A certificate of the insurance shall be provided to the
City with the applications referred to in divisions (a) and (h) of this section and shall be maintained before and
during the installation of the device and throughout the period that the permit for the device is in effect.
(f) Permits shall be issued by the Director under Section 680.04. Permits so issued shall be valid for a period
of one (1) year, or any portion of a year. Permits shall expire on the last day of February of each year.
(g) The owner must promptly notify the Director in writing of any change in the information required by
division (a) of this section. If the owner proposes to change the location of a newspaper dispensing device, a
new permit application, together with a fifty dollars ($50.00) fee to defray the expenses incident to the
administration of the provisions of this chapter, must be filed prior to the change in location.
(h) Every owner desiring to renew a newspaper dispensing device permit shall file a permit renewal application
with the Director containing the information required by division (a) of this section. A permit renewal application
must be filed no sooner than forty (40) days prior to the date of expiration of the existing permit and no later
than the date of expiration of the existing permit. A fifty dollar ($50.00) fee for each newspaper dispensing device
must accompany each permit renewal application to defray the expenses incident to the administration of this
chapter.
(i) If the number of permit applications exceed the number of newspaper dispensing devices which may be
placed adjacent to each other and which are otherwise permissible under division (a) of Section 680.05, the Director
shall determine which of the newspaper dispensing devices comply with the requirement based upon the order
in which the permit applications were filed under this section.
Section 683.04
License and Permit Application; Fees; Issuance; Renewal; Fee
(a) Every person desiring to operate a sound amplifying device mounted on a vehicle shall make a separate
application to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses, on forms prescribed by the Commissioner for each
vehicle.
(b) On receipt of a fifty dollar ($50.00) fee, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall issue a license
which shall cover the calendar year in which the application is made.
(c) In addition to the license referred to above, each person desiring to operate a sound amplifying device
mounted on a vehicle must obtain a permit from the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses each time the
person desires to operate the device.
(d) On receipt of a ten dollar ($10.00) fee, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses, with the approval
of the Director of Public Safety, shall issue a permit which specifies the date of operation, the time during which
the device may be operated, the exact location where the operation will be permitted and the specific purpose of
the device’s operation.

2657

The City Record

48

December 11, 2002

Section 683.07
Permit Application; Fees; Issuance
(a) Every person desiring to conduct the activities described in division (a) or (b) of Section 683.06 shall make
application for a permit to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses on forms prescribed by the Commissioner.
(b) On receipt of a twenty-five dollar ($25.00) fee, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall issue
the permit, provided that:
(1) The Director of Public Safety is satisfied that the permit’s issuance will not result in unnecessary and
unseemly noise to the detriment of the health or comfort of any individuals; and
(2) No permit shall be issued for more than fourteen (14) consecutive days and no permit or combination of
permits shall be issued to exceed a total of thirty (30) days in any calendar year for a specific location.
(c) The permit shall specify the exact location at which the activity for which the permit is issued may occur
and the day or days during which the activity may take place.
Section 683A.03 Permit Application; Fee
(a) Every applicant for a permit to maintain, operate, or conduct a massage establishment shall file an application in duplicate, under oath, with the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses on a form provided by the
Commissioner and pay a nonrefundable filing fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) to the City Treasurer, who
shall issue a receipt which shall be attached to the application filed with the Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses.
(b) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall, within five days, refer copies of the application to
the Fire Division, the Health Commissioner, the Building Inspection Division, and the Police Division. These agencies shall, within 30 days, inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a massage establishment and make
written recommendations to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses concerning compliance with the codes
and regulations they administer.
(c) Within ten days of receipt of the recommendations of the agencies in division (b) of this section, the
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall notify the applicant that his application is granted, denied,
or held for further investigation. The period of the additional investigation shall not exceed an additional 30
days unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. On the conclusion of the additional investigation, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall advise the applicant, in writing, whether the application is granted or denied.
(d) Whenever an application is denied or held for further investigation, the Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses shall advise the applicant in writing of the reasons for the action.
(e) The failure or refusal of the applicant to promptly give information relevant to the investigation of the
application or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with any inspection required by this chapter shall constitute an admission by the applicant that he or she is ineligible for the permit and shall be grounds for denial
by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses.
(f) If the application is denied, the applicant shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Appeals established under Section 76-6 of the Charter. The applicant shall within ten days after notification of denial file notice
in writing with the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses of applicant’s intention to appeal to the Board.
The Board, after public hearing, may sustain, disapprove, or modify the order.
Section 683A.07 Masseur or Masseuse Permit Required
Any person, including an applicant for a massage establishment permit, who engages in the practice of massage, shall file an application for a masseur or masseuse permit with the Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses on a form provided by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses and shall pay a nonrefundable
filing fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for an application to the City Treasurer who shall issue a receipt which shall
be attached to the application filed with the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses.
Section 688.08
License Fees; Disposition
(a) Every person, society, club, firm, or corporation to whom a license is granted shall pay a biennial fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first table and twenty dollars ($20.00) for each additional table. However, where the
applicant is a society or club not organized for profit, no license fee shall be charged for the use of any table.
(b) All moneys received by way of license fees shall be paid into the General Fund of the City.
Section 689.02
Permit Issuance; Conditions and Hours
The Director of Public Safety may, on application of the owner or proprietor, and upon the payment by the
owner or proprietor to the City Treasurer of a biennial fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for the first alley and
twenty dollars ($20.00) for each additional alley in the same building, issue a permit for the operation of any
bowling alleys, provided that the same shall be operated only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. of the
next day.
Section 690.05
License Fee; Display; Transfer
Any person, society, club, firm, or corporation to which a license is granted, shall upon the granting of the
license, pay a biennial fee as follows:
Floor space (sq. ft.)

Biennial Fee

Less than 2,500
2,500 to 6,500
Over 6,500

$100.00
$130.00
$170.00

2658

December 11, 2002

The City Record

49

However, upon the voluntary surrender of a dance hall license within 120 days after the issuance of the license,
one-half of the fee shall be returned to the owner of the license, payable out of the fund into which the license
fee has been paid. All money received by way of license fees and permits shall be paid into the General Fund
of the City. All licenses granted under the provisions of this chapter shall expire on the 30th day of June in odd
numbered years, unless sooner suspended or revoked, provided, however, that any license issued under Section
690.03 between the effective date of this section and June 30, 1993 shall expire on June 30, 1995 unless sooner
suspended or revoked by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses. A license issued under the provisions
of this chapter shall be displayed at all times in a conspicuous place in the public dance hall for which it is
issued. No transfer of any license shall be permitted.
Section 690.10
Temporary Permit; Fees
No person, firm, society, club, or corporation shall hold a public dance or public ball in any licensed dance hall
within the limits of the City without having first obtained a permit from the Director of Public Safety. Application for the permit must be made at least two days before the dance authorized is to be held. The fees for the
permits shall be as follows:
Floor space (sq. ft.)

Fee

Less than 2,500
2,500 to 6,500
Over 6,500

$20.00
$30.00
$40.00

No permit shall be required from the owner of a duly licensed hall, when the owner personally conducts the
dance.
Section 692.02
Permit Application; Fee; Term
The Director of Public Safety shall, upon payment by the applicant for the permit of a fee of seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) to the City Treasurer for each permit requested, grant the permits for a two-year period,
expiring on the 30th day of June in odd numbered years, unless sooner forfeited by the Director, provided,
however, that any permit issued under this section between the effective date of this section and June 30,
1993, shall expire on June 30, 1995, unless sooner forfeited by the Director. A conviction for a violation of
any ordinance of the City governing such places shall be sufficient cause for the forfeiture of the permits.
No permits shall be issued to any person to whom a permit formerly issued has been forfeited, or who has
been convicted of a felony. The permit shall bear the name of the person to whom granted, the name of the
street and number of the building where the music is to be employed, and the terms on which the same is
granted, as well as a clause specifying the conditions of forfeiture, and shall be signed by the Director of
Public Safety and bear the seal of the City, and it shall not be transferred. The Director may, notwithstanding
the provisions of this section, issue a permit for one entertainment without the payment of a fee as provided in this section.
Section 692A.04 License Fees
(a) Subject to the exemption in division (c) of this section, every exhibitor who is required by Section 692A.03
to obtain a license shall pay a license fee for each two-year license period or fraction of that period, under the
following schedule:
Number of Devices at One Location

Fee

3 or less
4-20
Over 20

$60.00 per device
$40.00 per device
No charge

(b) Every exhibitor who obtains a license for a place of business under division (a) of this section and who
subsequently desires to increase the number of amusement devices at that place of business shall file an additional license application under Section 692A.05, and shall pay an additional license fee based on the amounts in
division (a) of this section taking into account the number of devices for which annual license fees have already
been paid.
(c) (1) No license fee shall be required of a charitable organization for any amusement device with respect to
which:
A.
the charitable organization is not subject to the tax imposed by Section 511 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, for unrelated business income with respect to the revenues derived from the device;
or
B.
the charitable organization is the owner of the device.
(2) For purposes of this division (c), a “charitable organization” means any corporation, or association, or
trust, or community chest, fund, or foundation, organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, or
educational purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals, and no part of the net earnings
of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and no substantial part of the activities of which is carrying on propaganda or otherwise attempting to influence legislation; provided, however,
that nothing in this division shall include an organization operated for the primary purpose of carrying on a
trade or business for profit, whether or not all of its profits are payable to one or more organizations described
in this division.

2659

The City Record

50

December 11, 2002

Section 694.04
License Fee; Expiration; Posting Required
Any person, firm, corporation, or association to which a license is granted shall pay an annual fee as follows:
Skating Area (sq. ft.)

Fee

Less
2,500
5,001
Over

$50.00
$60.00
$65.00
$80.00

than 2,500
to 5,000
to 6,500
6,500

All licenses granted under the provisions of this chapter shall expire on May 1. The license shall be displayed
in a conspicuous place in the roller skating rink for which it is issued. No transfer of any license shall be permitted.
Section 696.02
License Application; Fee; Approval or Disapproval
(a) Each applicant for a license required by Section 696.01 shall make an application to the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses. The applications shall be on forms provided by the Commissioner. The application
shall be filed at least sixty days prior to the effective date of the required license. The application for the license
shall be accompanied by an affidavit stating that the premises to be occupied conform with existing health, safety, and fire ordinances of the City and that the proposed occupancy and use do not violate any applicable ordinance of the City. In addition to the name and address of the applicant, the application shall contain the name
and address of all officers or partners of the applicant, if it is other than an individual, as well as other relevant information as the Commissioner may require.
(b) The application shall be accompanied by a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) which shall be used to
defray the cost of processing the application.
(c) Upon the filing of the application, the Commissioner shall refer it to the Director of Public Safety, who
shall investigate the proposed location to determine compliance with fire regulations, and also to determine
whether the applicant or any officers have been convicted for violating any law or ordinance, other than those
relating to traffic violations. The Commissioner shall also refer the application to the Director of Community
Development, who shall investigate to determine compliance with all applicable building, housing, or zoning ordinances and, the Commissioner shall also refer the application to the Director of Public Health and Welfare, who
shall investigate to determine compliance with all ordinances and laws relating to health and sanitation.
(d) If any of the departments in division (c) of this section disapproves the application either because of failure to comply with applicable ordinances or laws or because of past criminal convictions of the applicant or its
officers, the Commissioner shall reject the application. On approval of all the departments the Commissioner shall
issue to the applicant a license subject to the limitations in Section 696.03.
Section 698.05
License Issuance; Fees; Posting
On posting of the bond required by Section 698.04 and payment of a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
year for the first or principal location and fifty dollars ($50.00) per year for each additional location, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall issue a license. All licenses shall be for the period of one year and
shall expire on August 31 next following the date of issuance and there shall be no rebate for any lesser time.
Each license shall contain the name under which the business is to be conducted and the name of the person to
whom issued. The license shall not be transferable and the business shall be conducted only at the location or
locations specified in the license. The license shall be conspicuously exhibited on the premises which was licensed
under that permit.
Section 2. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
Section 133.30, as amended by Ordinance No. 2044-92, passed December 7, 1992,
Section 133.33, as amended by Ordinance No. 1760-02, passed September 23, 2002,
Section 133.34, as enacted by Ordinance No. 324-99, passed May 1, 2000,
Section 135.16, as amended by Ordinance No. 1133-92, passed April 26, 1993,
Section 135.332, as amended by Ordinance No. 348-93, passed April 26, 1993,
Section 195.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 284-91, passed March 4, 1991,
Section 205.03, as enacted by Ordinance No. 511-76, passed June 14, 1976,
Section 207.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 2460-93, passed June 6, 1994,
Section 213.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 2460-93, passed June 6, 1994,
Section 215.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 2587-80, passed March 2, 1981,
Section 217.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 2460-93, passed June 6, 1994,
Section 223.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 2587-80, passed March 2, 1981,
Section 225.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 2587-80, passed March 2, 1981,
Section 225.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 782-99, passed July 14, 1999,
Section 227.06, as amended by Ordinance No. 664-65, passed April 13, 1965,
Section 231.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 2587-80, passed March 2, 1981,
Section 240.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 1132-93, passed October 25, 1993,
Section 241.05, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2163-01, passed May 20, 2002,
Section 241.21, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2163-01, passed May 20, 2002,
Section 263.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 857-A-76, passed June 27, 1977,
Section 329.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 375-83, passed March 7, 1983,
Section 381.051, as amended by Ordinance No. 1654-89, passed January 22, 1990,
Section 381.052, as amended by Ordinance No. 1654-89, passed January 22, 1990,

2660

December 11, 2002

The City Record

51

Section 381.053, as amended by Ordinance No. 1654-89, passed January 22, 1990,
Section 381.054, as amended by Ordinance No. 1654-89, passed January 22, 1990,
Section 381.06, as amended by Ordinance No. 1654-89, passed January 22, 1990,
Section 393.11, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2704-B-83, passed March 4, 1985,
Section 395.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 1426-92, passed July 22, 1992,
Section 3103.21, as amended by Ordinance No. 1564-89, passed July 26, 1989,
Section 3105.25, as amended by Ordinance No. 53-94, passed June 6, 1994,
Section 3105.26, as amended by Ordinance No. 2370-01, passed May 13, 2002,
Section 3105.27, as amended by Ordinance No. 2913-90, passed March 4, 1991,
Section 3105.28, as amended by Ordnance No. 53-94, passed June 6, 1994,
Section 3107.10, as amended by Ordinance No. 1831-92, passed October 5, 1992,
Section 411.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 2590-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 439.021, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2743-91, passed December 16, 1991,
Section 443.10, as amended by Ordinance No. 2590-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 443.20, as amended by Ordinance No. 2590-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 445.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed June 29, 1976,
Section 445.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 2590-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 447.04, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2459-A-91, passed December 14, 1992,
Section 457.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 2603-91, passed August 19, 1992,
Section 459.11, as amended by Ordinance No. 1593-2000, passed December 18, 2000,
Section 461.14, as amended by Ordinance No. 942-83, passed June 4, 1984,
Section 473.11, as amended by Ordinance No. 2590-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 473.12, as amended by Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed June 29, 1976,
Section 505.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September 22, 1924,
Section 541.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 1831-92, passed October 5, 1992,
Section 551.111, as enacted by Ordinance No. 319-99, passed October 9, 2000,
Section 551.112, as enacted by Ordinance No. 319-99, passed October 9, 2000,
Section 551.12, as amended by Ordinance No. 773-A-80, passed December 14, 1981,
Section 551.191, as amended by Ordinance No. 676-A-82, passed June 21, 1982,
Section 551.38, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1828-90, passed June 6, 1994,
Section 555.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 1668-91, passed October 21, 1991,
Section 603.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 1464-94, passed January 30, 1995,
Section 603.031, as amended by Ordinance No. 1471-94, passed January 30, 1995,
Section 657.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 2297-90, passed November 5, 1990,
Section 670.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 586-91, passed April 29, 1991,
Section 670A.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 1585-90, passed January 7, 1991,
Section 670A.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 1585-90, passed January 7, 1991,
Section 672.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 1330-58, passed March 9, 1959,
Section 673.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 2588-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 674.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 90-96, passed March 18, 1996,
Section 674.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 1014-91, passed November 25, 1991,
Section 675.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 1428-92, passed July 22, 1992,
Section 675.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 623-95, passed June 12, 1995,
Section 675.06, as amended by Ordinance No. 1670-92, passed August 19, 1992,
Section 675.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 1814-92, passed February 22, 1993,
Section 675.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 1428-92, passed July 22, 1992,
Section 676.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 1304-97, passed December 14, 1998,
Section 676.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 2588-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 676A.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 234-92, passed March 9, 1992,
Section 677A.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 228-93, passed February 8, 1993,
Section 677A.21, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1053-A-80, passed January 12, 1981,
Section 680.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 2436-A-90, passed June 17, 1991,
Section 683.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 2487-A-89, passed June 18, 1990,
Section 683.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 2487-A-89, passed June 18, 1990,
Section 683A.03, as enacted by Ordinance No. 222-87, passed May 11, 1987,
Section 683A.07, as enacted by Ordinance No. 222-87, passed May 11, 1987,
Section 688.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 228-93, passed February 8, 1993,
Section 689.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 228-93, passed February 8, 1993,
Section 690.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 228-93, passed February 8, 1993,
Section 690.10, as amended by Ordinance No. 2588-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 692.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 228-93, passed February 8, 1993,
Section 692A.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 1104-94, passed June 13, 1994,
Section 694.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 2588-80, passed June 1, 1981,
Section 696.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 1521-67, passed July 24, 1967,
Section 698.05, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1290-A-43, passed October 22, 1945,
are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committees on Legislation, Finance.

2661

The City Record

52

December 11, 2002

Ord. No. 2394-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make temporary appropriation for the current payrolls and other ordinary expenses
of the City of Cleveland for the period from January 1, 2003 until the effective date of the annual appropriation
ordinance for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2003.
Whereas, it is desired to postpone the passage of the annual appropriation ordinance until the amended
certificate is received, based on the actual balances as the same may be determined by the Director of Finance
and the County Budget Commission; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. To provide for the current payrolls, sinking fund and other ordinary expenses of the City of Cleveland for the period from January 1, 2003, until the effective date of the Annual Appropriation Ordinance for the
fiscal year ending December 31, 2003, there be and there is hereby appropriated for the period from January 1,
2003, to the effective date of the Annual appropriation Four Hundred Sixty Seven Million Two Hundred Forty
Nine Thousand Four Hundred Four Dollars $467,249,404 out of taxes due the City of Cleveland and any other revenues accrued or occurring during said period of time and said funds are respectively appropriated as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Council and Clerk of Council
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Judicial Branch
Judicial Division
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Housing Division
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Clerks Division
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses
Total Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
Office of the Mayor
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Department of Public Safety
Public Safety Administration
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Police
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Fire
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Emergency Medical Services
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Dog Pound
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses
Total Public Safety
Community Relations Board
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

2662

$
$
$

1,304,571
753,174
2,057,745

$
$
$

5,155,496
1,779,958
6,935,454

$
$
$

780,183
91,649
871,832

$ 2,333,112
$
858,054
$ 3,191,166
$ 10,998,452

$
$
$

693,958
117,543
811,501

$
$
$

926,591
180,256
1,106,847

$ 51,082,589
$ 3,997,158
$ 55,079,747

$ 23,462,049
$ 1,166,741
$ 24,628,790

$
$
$

5,965,306
715,658
6,680,964

$
238,348
$
59,102
$
297,450
$ 87,793,798

$
$
$

297,472
43,133
340,605

The City Record

December 11, 2002

Department of Public Service
Public Service Administration
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Architecture
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Waste Collection and Disposal
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Engineering and Construction
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Traffic Engineering
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses
Total Public Service
Parks, Recreation and Properties
Parks, Recreation and Properties Admin
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Research, Planning and Development
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Recreation
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Parking Facilities - On Street
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Property Management
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Park Maintenance and Properties
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses
Total Parks and Recreation
Department of Community Development
Division of Administrative Services
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Building and Housing
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Director’s Office
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

2663

53

$
$
$

157,694
9,627
167,321

$
$
$

219,152
9,557
228,709

$
$
$

5,174,823
4,782,188
9,957,011

$
$
$

1,480,526
139,394
1,619,920

$
975,653
$
309,388
$ 1,285,041
$ 13,258,002

$
$
$

179,617
146,500
326,117

$
$
$

250,000
61,000
311,000

$
$
$

2,530,651
1,337,150
3,867,801

$
$
$

324,504
22,000
346,504

$
$
$

2,365,250
1,436,750
3,802,000

$ 2,871,596
$ 2,517,148
$ 5,388,744
$ 14,042,166

$
$
$

453,948
128,387
582,335

$
$
$

5,928,126
335,354
6,263,480

$
$
$

101,227
0
101,227

54

The City Record
Division of Neighborhood Development
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Neighborhood Services
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses
Total Community Development
Landmarks Commission
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Board of Building Standards & Appeals
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Board of Zoning Appeals
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Board of Examiners of Plumbers & Elect.
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Fair Campaign Finance Commission
II
Other Expenses

Economic Development
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Office of Equal Opportunity
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Department of Consumer Affairs
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

City Planning Commission
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Department of Public Health
Health Administration
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Corrections
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Health
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of the Environment
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

2664

December 11, 2002
$
$
$

542,201
120,000
662,201

$
$
$
$

298,423
0
298,423
7,907,666

$
$
$

48,590
4,922
53,512

$
$
$

28,288
6,505
34,793

$
$
$

73,010
8,431
81,441

$
$
$

31,604
1,337
32,941

$
$

4,000
4,000

$
$
$

383,675
33,263
416,938

$
$
$

203,904
19,763
223,667

$
$
$

86,700
59,440
146,140

$
$
$

472,888
33,298
506,186

$
$
$

230,499
34,999
265,498

$
$
$

1,551,343
476,215
2,027,558

$
$
$

774,756
443,270
1,218,026

$
$
$

353,044
138,255
491,299

The City Record

December 11, 2002

Division of Air Quality
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses
Total Public Health
Department of Aging
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Department of Finance
Finance Administration
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Accounts
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Assessments & Licenses
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Treasury
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Bureau of Internal Audit
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Financial Reporting & Control
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Information Systems Services
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses
Total Finance
Office of Budget & Management
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Law
I
II

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

Office of Personnel
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Civil Service Commission
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Non-Departmental
County Auditor Deductions
II
Other Expenses

2665

55
$
$
$
$

32,482
316,880
349,362
4,351,743

$
$
$

107,364
38,649
146,013

$
$
$

160,849
27,196
188,045

$
$
$

335,299
234,704
570,003

$
$
$

393,184
66,657
459,841

$
$
$

162,314
38,824
201,138

$
$
$

209,268
57,034
266,302

$
$
$

215,480
196,888
412,368

$
$
$

376,691
379,367
756,058

$
$
$
$

1,015,000
332,500
1,347,500
4,201,255

$
$
$

164,579
15,481
180,060

$
$
$

2,129,115
1,281,407
3,410,522

$
$
$

407,802
379,055
786,857

$
$
$

218,479
255,797
474,276

$
$

365,000
365,000

The City Record

56
Other Administrative
II
Other Expenses

December 11, 2002
$
$

Transfers to Other Funds
Transfers to Other Funds
II
Other Expenses

6,440,000
6,440,000

$ 4,000,000
$ 4,000,000
$ 10,805,000
$163,065,279

Total Nondepartmental
Total General Fund

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND
Restricted Income Tax
I
Capital
II
Debt Service

$ 15,209,857
$ 17,000,000
$ 32,209,857

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities
II
Other Expenses
Total Special Revenue

$ 5,858,177
$ 7,427,400
$ 13,285,577

$ 2,000,000
$ 2,000,000
$ 47,495,434

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
ISS - Telecommunications
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
264,000
II
Other Expenses
$ 3,107,000
$ 3,371,000
Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Printing and Reproduction
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

City Storeroom
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses
Total Internal Service

$
$
$

2,263,500
6,000,455
8,263,955

$
$
$

212,324
277,184
489,508

$
18,767
$
330,183
$
348,950
$ 12,473,413

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
Department of Public Utilities
Utilities Administration
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II
Other Expenses
$
$
Radio
I
II

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

Division of Fiscal Control
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Water
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Division of Water Pollution Control
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

2666

475,680
235,000
710,680

$
$
$

18,450
1,310,500
1,328,950

$
$
$

929,000
125,500
1,054,500

$ 30,550,000
$ 62,550,000
$ 93,100,000

$
$
$

3,408,500
6,388,000
9,796,500

The City Record

December 11, 2002

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses
TOTAL PUBLIC UTILITIES
Department of Port Control
Airports - Operations
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties
Division of Cemeteries
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Golf Courses Fund
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Parking Facilities - Off Street
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Convention Center
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

West Side Market
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

Stadium Fund
II
Other Expenses

Property Management - East Side Market
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses
Total Enterprise
AGENCY FUND
Central Collection Agency
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
II
Other Expenses

57
$ 9,005,500
$ 47,155,000
$ 56,160,500
$162,151,130

$ 7,448,848
$ 41,547,936
$ 48,996,784

$
$
$

634,424
316,500
950,924

$
$
$

383,640
608,500
992,140

$
$
$

362,798
3,556,229
3,919,027

$
$
$

1,267,937
1,510,000
2,777,937

$
$
$

179,810
338,300
518,110

$
$

6,000,000
6,000,000

$
20,341
$
10,000
$
30,341
$226,336,393

$
$
$

1,500,607
1,164,808
2,665,415

DEBT SERVICE FUNDS
Sinking Fund Commission
I
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
41,750
II
Other Expenses
$
171,720
III
Debt Service
$ 15,000,000
$ 15,213,470
Total All Funds
$467,249,404
Section 2. That all expenditures and payments made under and pursuant to the ordinance appropriating such
sum or sums of money shall be charged against the annual appropriation ordinance for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2003, when such appropriation ordinance shall become effective, and to the various departments and
divisions and payment of whose officers and employees and operating expenses such sum or sums of money
hereunder shall then have paid out or expended. Provided, however, that no payment shall be made under the
authority of this ordinance after the effective date of said Annual Appropriation Ordinance for the fiscal year
ending December 31, 2003.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

2667

58
Ord. No. 2395-02.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance to change
the name of that portion of East
130th Street between Drexmore and
Buckeye Roads to “Westmore Drive”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name of that portion of
East 130th Street between Drexmore
and
Buckeye
Roads
is
hereby
changed to “Westmore Drive”.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2396-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 403.04 and 453.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1684-76, passed June 29, 1976, relating
to downtown area parking.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 403.04 and
453.02 of the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1684-76,
passed June 29, 1976, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
Section 403.04 Downtown Area
Parking
As used in this Traffic Code,
“downtown parking area” means the
area bounded by Lake Erie from the
Cuyahoga River to the easterly line
of East 30th Street extended; the
easterly lines of East 30th Street
connected from Lake Erie to Carnegie Avenue; the southerly line of
Carnegie Avenue from East 30th
Street to East 9th Street; the easterly line of East 9th Street to Carnegie Avenue; the southerly line of
Carnegie Avenue from Broadway to
the Cuyahoga River; and the Cuyahoga River from Carnegie Avenue
to Lake Erie.
Section 453.02 Parking Violations
(a) No person shall park, cause,
allow or permit to be parked any
vehicle owned or operated by such
person in any parking meter space
without depositing the coin designated in the preceding section in the
slot provided in such meter, and if
a hand operated perking meter is
installed, without turning the lever
on the parking meter as far as it
will go.

The City Record
(b) The provisions of Section
453.01 notwithstanding and in addition to the parking prohibitions
already set forth in this Traffic
Code, no person shall park, cause,
allow or permit to be parked any
vehicle owned or operated by such
person in any parking meter space
located in the downtown parking
area, as defined in Section 403.04, at
any
time
as
posted,
including
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and
10:00 p.m., without depositing the
coin designated in the preceding
section in the slot provided in such
parking meter, and if a hand operated parking meter is installed,
without turning the lever on the
parking meter as far as it will go.
(c) No person shall cause, allow
or permit any vehicle registered in
his name to be parked overtime or
beyond a lawful period of time prescribed by or in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(d) No person shall cause, allow
or permit any vehicle owned or operated by such person to be parked
across
any
line
designating
a
metered parking zone space.
Any vehicle parked in contravention of these provisions shall be
deemed to be illegally parked under
the provisions of this chapter. The
fact that a vehicle is in a metered
parking zone space when the time
signal on the parking meter for the
same shows no parking permitted,
unless a deposit of a coin is made,
as provided in this chapter, shall be
deemed prima-facie evidence of the
unlawful parking of such vehicle by
its owner.
Section 3. That existing Sections
403.04 and 453.02 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 168476 passed June 29, 1976, are hereby
repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.
FIRST READING
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 2390-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An ordinance to change the zoning in the vicinity of Ashland Road,
Longfellow Avenue and Thackery
Avenue to a Semi-Industry District.
(Map Change No. 2065, Sheet No. 5)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District
and Height District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the centerline of
Cedar Avenue S.E. (60 feet Wide) at
its intersection with the centerline
of Ashland Road S.E. (70 feet wide);
thence Southeasterly along the centerline of said Ashland Road to its
intersection with the Southwesterly
prolongation of the most Southerly
line of land conveyed to Weiser
Mgmt. Inc. by deed recorded in Volume 85-5728 Page 70 of Cuyahoga
County deed records and being

2668

December 11, 2002
known as P.P.N. 118-21-001; thence
Northeasterly along said prolongation and Southerly line to its intersection with the centerline of a railroad right of way (formerly the
Pennsylvania Railroad C. & D. Division); thence Northwesterly along
said Railroad centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Cedar
Avenue as aforesaid; thence Westerly along said centerline of Cedar
Avenue to the place of beginning;
and as outlined in red on the
attached map are changed to a SemiIndustry District and a “2” Height
District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of land described in Section
1 shall be identified as Map Change
No. 2065, Sheet No. 5, and shall be
made upon the Building Zone Maps
of the City of Cleveland on file in
the office of the Clerk of Council
and on file in the office of the City
Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this
purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That the Use District
and Height District of land bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the centerline of
Longfellow Avenue S.E. (70 feet
wide) at its intersection with the
centerline of East 57th Street (16
feet wide) now vacated; thence
Northerly along the centerline of
said Vacated East 57th Street to its
intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line of
Sublot number 86 in the L. M. Southern & W. S. Chamberlain allotment
as shown on the recorded plat in
Volume 11 Page 42 of Cuyahoga
County map records; thence Easterly along said Westerly prolongation
and Northerly line of Sublot numbers 86 through 92 both inclusive in
said Southern & Chamberlain allotment; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of said Sublot number
92 to its intersection with the centerline of Longfellow Avenue as
aforesaid; Thence Westerly along
the centerline of said Longfellow
Avenue to the place of beginning;
and as outlined in red on the attached map are changed to a SemiIndustry District and a “2” Height
District.
Section 4. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 3 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2065, Sheet No. 5, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 5. That the Use District
and Height District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the centerline of
Longfellow Avenue S.E. (70 feet
wide) at its intersection with the
centerline of East 59th Place (10
feet wide); thence Southerly along
the centerline of said East 59th
Place to its intersection with the
centerline of Tivoli Court S.E. (16
feet wide); thence Easterly along
the centerline of said Tivoli Court
to its intersection with the centerline of East 61st Street (10 feet
wide); thence Northerly along the
centerline of said East 61st Street to
its intersection with the centerline
of Longfellow Avenue as aforesaid;

December 11, 2002
thence Westerly along the centerline of said Longfellow Avenue to
the place of beginning;
and as outlined in red on the attached map are changed to a SemiIndustry District and a “2” Height
District.
Section 6. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 5 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2065, Sheet No. 5, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 7. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 2391-02.
By Council Member Jones.
An ordinance to expand the LeeHarvard Business Revitalization District. (Map Change No. 2066, Sheet
No. 10)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Lee-Harvard
Business Revitalization District, as
established by Ordinance No. 16432000, is hereby expanded to include
the areas shown on the map in File
No. 2391-02-A.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2066, Sheet No. 10, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 2392-02.
By Council Member Polensek.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on the northeast corner of Lake Shore Boulevard and
Marcella Road to a General Retail
Business District. (Map Change No.
2064, Sheet No. 7)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of
Marcella Road N.E. (50 feet wide) at
its intersection with the centerline
of Lake Shore Blvd. N.E. (80 feet
wide); thence Northeasterly along
said centerline of Marcella Rd., N.E.
to its intersection with the Southeasterly prolongation of the Easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed
to Ante and Gordana Susnjara by
deed dated December 8, 2000 and
recorded
as
Auditor’s
File
No.
200012080112; thence Northwesterly
along said prolongation and along
said Easterly line to its intersection
with the Northerly line of said parcel so conveyed; thence Southwest-

The City Record
erly along said Northerly line and
its Southwesterly prolongation, to
its intersection with the centerline
of Lake Shore Blvd., N.E.; thence
Southwesterly along said centerline
to the place of beginning;
and as outlined in red on the
attached map is changed to a General Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2064, Sheet No. 7, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 2397-02.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Scott, Zone, Coats, O’Malley, Reed
and Jones.
An emergency resolution encouraging and supporting the creation of a
511 traveler information system for
the State of Ohio; encouraging the
State of Ohio to implement a 511 traveler information system; and encouraging the Director of the Ohio Department of Transportation to submit a
grant application for 511 planning.
Whereas, in July of 2000, the Federal
Communications
Commission
designated 511 as the national traveler information phone number; and
Whereas, 511 is an easy to remember telephone number that provides
traveler information; and
Whereas, 511 enables travelers to
access accurate, up-to-the-minute information about local highway and
public transportation options and
current travel conditions, and
Whereas, traveler information systems, such as 511, help to balance
demand on transportation systems;
and
Whereas, implementation of a 511
traveler information system is the
responsibility of state governments;
and
Whereas, the United States Department of Transportation is offering grants to support 511 planning
and such grants are available to a
state’s Department of Transportation; and
Whereas, this Council encourages
and supports the creation and development of a 511 traveler information
system for the State of Ohio; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby encourages and supports the creation and development of a 511 traveler information system for the
State of Ohio.
Section
2.
That
this
Council
encourages the State of Ohio to
implement a 511 traveler information
system and encourages the Director

2669

59
of the Ohio Department of Transportation to submit a grant application for 511 planning to the United
States Department of Transportation.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Ohio Governor Bob Taft, all members of the
Ohio Senate and Ohio House of Representatives representing the City of
Cleveland, the Director of the Ohio
Department of Transportation, the
National League of Cities, and the
National Black Caucus of Local and
Elected Officials.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 2398-02.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning
Commission to enter into an agreement with the Little Italy Redevelopment Corporation for the Little
Italy
Neighborhood
Master
Plan
through the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Little Italy Redevelopment
Corporation for the Little Italy
Neighborhood Master Plan, for the
public purpose of promoting commercial and residential development
in the Little Italy Neighborhood that
will benefit the residents of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $55,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

60
Ord. No. 2399-02.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 8602, passed January 14, 2002 as it pertains to authorizing the Director of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with Spanish American
Committee for the Three Kings Day
Program through the use of Ward 14
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 86-02, passed January
14, 2002 are hereby amended to read
respectively as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Spanish American Committee for Three Kings Day Program
effective from December 5, 2002 to
January 21, 2003 for the public purpose of providing food to needy families and toys to underprivileged
children through the use of Ward 14
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 86-02, passed January
14, 2002 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2413-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the President of Council to
make payment to the Cleveland
Development Fund, Inc., a non-profit corporation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, in order to help underwrite expenses associated with the
Holiday Party, organized by the
Cleveland Branch of the National
Association for the Advancement of
Colored People, for foster and adoptive children in the care of the
Cuyahoga County Department of
Children and Family Services.
Whereas, the Cleveland Branch of
the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People is
sponsoring the third annual Holiday
Party for foster and adoptive children in the care of the Cuyahoga
County Department of Children and
Family Services; and
Whereas, this Holiday Party is
scheduled for Sunday, December 22,
2002 from 1:00 p.m. until 5:00 p.m. at
the IX Center; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
wishes to partner with the Cleveland
Branch of the National Association

The City Record
for the Advancement of Colored People in order to help make the Holiday Party a successful event; and
Whereas,
a
donation
to
help
underwrite expenses for this Holiday Party furthers the public purpose of providing a safe and healthy
environment for foster and adoptive
children in the care of the Cuyahoga
County Department of Children and
Family Services to celebrate the holiday season and furthers the public
purpose of providing recreational
activities for such children; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the President of
Council is authorized to make payment to the Cleveland Development
Fund, Inc., a non-profit corporation
of the Cleveland Branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, in order to
provide funds to help underwrite
expenses associated with the third
annual Holiday Party, organized by
the Cleveland Branch of the National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People, for foster and
adoptive children in the care of the
Cuyahoga County Department of
Children and Family Services to be
held at the IX Center on Sunday,
December 22, 2002.
Section 2. That the cost of the payment authorized in Section 1 shall
not exceed twenty thousand dollars
($20,000) and shall be paid from
Fund No. 01 SF 001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 2400-02.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Conwell, Scott and Zone.
An emergency resolution urging
the
Campbell
Administration
to
investigate the manner in which
funds provided to the Greater Cleveland YMCA by the City of Cleveland, during the last ten years, were
expended
to
determine
if
such
expenditures are consistent with
any contract between the City of
Cleveland and the Greater Cleveland
YMCA, with any ordinance authorizing funding for YMCA activities,
and with any applicable laws; and
requesting that if such investigation
reveals that funds provided to the
Greater Cleveland YMCA by the City
of Cleveland were expended in an
illegal or inappropriate manner, that
the Law Director take any and all
action that may be necessary to
recover such funds and protect the
interests of the City of Cleveland.

2670

December 11, 2002
Whereas, the YMCA of Greater
Cleveland has announced plans to
close its Glenville and Near West
Side branches; and
Whereas, the YMCA of Greater
Cleveland has received funds from
the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, such funds were provided in order to assist the Greater
Cleveland YMCA in its efforts to
provide social service programs and
recreational activities to the citizens
of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
ensure that City of Cleveland funds
provided to the Greater Cleveland
YMCA were expended for the purposes intended; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
requests
that
the
Campbell
Administration investigate the manner in which funds provided to the
Greater Cleveland YMCA by the City
of Cleveland, during the last ten
years, were expended to determine
if such expenditures are consistent
with any contract between the City
of Cleveland and the Greater Cleveland YMCA, with any ordinance
authorizing funding for YMCA activities, and with all applicable laws.
Section 2. That if such investigation reveals that funds provided to
the Greater Cleveland YMCA by the
City of Cleveland were expended in
an illegal and/or inappropriate manner, this Council requests that the
Law Director take any and all
action that may be necessary to
recover such funds and protect the
interests of the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2401-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Westbrook.
An emergency resolution strongly
condemning FOX 8 News for showing a photograph and broadcasting
the name of a rape and assault victim in its newscast this past week
and urging Fox 8 News to follow the
example of those news organizations that do not release the name
of rape victims.
Whereas, last week a woman was
assaulted and raped while walking
home from a bus stop on the City’s
west side; and
Whereas, this story was carried in
the local newspaper and on local
television newscasts; and
Whereas, in its newscast, Fox 8
News broadcast a photograph and
the name of the rape and assault
victim; and

December 11, 2002
Whereas, the use of the victim’s
name and image in relaying this terrible crime to the public is completely outside the bounds of good,
moral and professional journalism;
and
Whereas, the use of the victim’s
name and image in relaying this terrible crime to the public shows a
total lack of respect and compassion
for the woman who was raped; and
Whereas, the use of the victim’s
name and image in relaying this terrible crime to the public serves only
to make the crime victim a victim
again, this time of overzealous and
sensationalist journalism; and
Whereas, Fox 8 News and all city
television stations should work to
aid in finding the perpetrator of the
crime instead of further victimizing
the crime victim; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby strongly condemns FOX 8 News
for
showing
a
photograph
and
broadcasting the name of a rape and
assault victim in its newscast this
past weekend and urges Fox 8 News
to follow the example of those news
organizations that do not release
the name of rape victims.
Section 2. That this Council commends the city’s other local news
media for their sensitivity and their
appropriate news coverage in this
instance.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to the General Manager of Fox 8 News.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2402-02.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit to
12417 Cooley Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Digat, LLC,
DBA B & D Deli, 12417 Cooley Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 0534829; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and

The City Record
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Digat, LLC, DBA
B & D Deli, 12417 Cooley Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
Number 0534829; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2403-02.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 2181 Murray Hill Road
and repealing Resolution No. 1753-02,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 2181 Murray Hill Avenue, by Resolution No.
1753-02 adopted by the Council on
September 9, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer based upon and pursuant to a cooperation agreement by

2671

61
and through City Council Representative, Patricia J. Britt and George
J. Argie, Managing Partner, Gargiso
Properties II Ltd., 2181 Murray Hill
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent Number 3052797, a copy of
which is in the file for this address
with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit to 2181 Murray
Hill Road, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1753-02, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2404-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of liquor license
of a D1, D2, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit to 4017 St. Clair Avenue, down
unit.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of liquor license of a D1,
D2, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit from
Lai Lai Chinese Restaurant, LLC,
3040 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
4971014 to T & B Cleveland, Inc.
DBA My Place, 4017 St. Clair Avenue, Down Unit, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 8769771;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it

62
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code.
Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of liquor license of a D1, D2, D3
and D6 Liquor Permit from Lai Lai
Chinese Restaurant, LLC, 3040 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
Permanent Number 4971014 to T & B
Cleveland, Inc. DBA My Place, 4017
St. Clair Avenue, Down Unit, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number
8769771; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2405-02.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit to
15520 Munn Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C2
Liquor
Permit
at
Speedway
Superamerica, LLC, DBA Speedway,
#9338, 15520 Munn Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
84189841820; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health

The City Record
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Speedway Superamerica,
LLC,
DBA
Speedway,
#9338, 15520 Munn Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
84189841820; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2406-02.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 14053 Lorain Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1435-02, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1,
C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to 14053
Lorain Avenue by Resolution No.
1435-02 adopted by the Council on
July 17, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Michael A. Dolan and Talat
Iqbal, President of Ali Hader, Inc.,

2672

December 11, 2002
DBA Sunny Food Mart, 14053 Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 0121160, a copy of
which is in the file for this address
with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1, C2
and D6 Liquor Permit to 14053
Lorain Avenue be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1435-02, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2407-02.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit at
2071 Broadview Road and repealing
Resolution No. 1650-02, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 2071 Broadview
Road by Resolution No. 1650-02
adopted by the Council on August
14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Merle R. Gordon and Frank A.
Novak, President of Raging Bull
Tavern, LLC, 2071 Broadview Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 7169195, a copy of which is
in the file for this address with the
City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to 2071 Broadview Road be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1650-02, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

December 11, 2002
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2408-02.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to 1013 East 185th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at Z D
Classic Co., 1013 East 185th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent
Number 9871402; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code.
Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit at Z D Classic
Co., 1013 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number
9871402; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the

The City Record
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2409-02.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 747 East
185th Street, 1st Floor and repealing
Resolution No. 1632-01, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit
to 747 East 185th Street, 1st Floor
by Resolution No. 1632-01 adopted by
the Council on August 15, 2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Michael D. Polensek and Dennis M. Yert, President of Horse Shoe
Booze & Food, Inc., 747 East 185th
Street, 1st Floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44119, Permanent Number 3983152, a
copy of which is in the file for this
address with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit to
747 East 185th Street, 1st Floor, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1632-01, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2410-02.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 4589 West
130th Street and repealing Resolution No. 1701-02, objecting to said
renewal.

2673

63
Whereas, this Council objected to
the of a D5 Liquor Permit to 4589
West 130th Street by Resolution No.
1701-02 adopted by the Council on
August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to
a cooperation agreement by and
through City Council Representative, Martin J. Sweeney and Louise
Barbera, President of Louse Marie,
Inc., DBA Duke’s Lounge, 4589 West
130th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44135,
Permanent Number 4311735, a copy
of which is in the file for this
address with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit to
4589 West 130th Street be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1701-02, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2411-02.
By Council Member White.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 11401
Miles Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit at Jon Alexander,
DBA
Maxines
Delicatessen,
11401 Miles Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 0109861;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department

64
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at Jon Alexander,
DBA Maxines Delicatessen, 11401
Miles Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent
Number
0109861;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2412-02.
By Council Member White.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 4055
East 93rd Street and repealing Resolution No. 1662-02, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 4055 East 93rd Street by
Resolution No. 1662-02 adopted by
Council on August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and hereby consents to said
renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution, constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 4055 East 93rd Street be and

The City Record
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1662-02, containing
said objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCE
Ord. No. 2247-02.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into agreements
with various property owners to provide tax increment financing to partially finance certain improvements
as part of the Lower Euclid Avenue
Commercial and Residential District
redevelopment project and to provide for service payments in lieu of
taxes,
and
to
declare
certain
improvements to real property to be
a public purpose.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1548-02.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
City Contract No. 47265 between the
City of Cleveland and Playhouse
Square Hotel Limited Partnership,
relating to the term, interest and
repayment on an Urban Development Action Grant loan.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2067-02.
By Council Members Coats, Gordon and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1282-02, passed June 17, 2002,
relating to the Director of Economic Development applying to the
Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund for loan assistance
to acquire, demolish, and remediate
property located on East 152nd
Street.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;

2674

December 11, 2002
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2152-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
employ one or more professional
consultants to conduct a Citywide
telephone, telecommunications network and wireless assessment and
to develop a unified voice messaging system; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
contracts for the lease or lease with
option to purchase of any equipment
necessary for the implementation,
including installation, support services and maintenance, if necessary.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 4, 5 and
6 in their entirety and insert: “a
Citywide data and voice systems
network assessment; to develop a
Citywide data and voice strategic
plan; and to provide data and voice
system integration services, including but not limited to program
implementation and management,
hardware and software configuration
and
programming
services;
and”.
2. In the title, lines 8 and 9, strike
“lease or lease with option to purchase of any equipment” and insert
“lease, purchase, or license of any
hardware, software, or supplies”.
3. In Section 1, strike lines 5
through 12 and insert: “comprehensive Citywide data and voice systems network assessment; to develop a Citywide data and voice system strategic plan; and to provide
data and voice system integration
services, including but not limited to
program implementation and management, hardware and software
configuration and programming services.”.
4. In Section 2, strike lines 1
through 6 and insert:
“Section 2. That, under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written contracts for the
lease, purchase, or license of hardware, software, or supplies necessaty to implement the data and
voice strategic plan developed under
Section 1, to be purchased or”.
5. In Section 3, line 1, strike “and”
and insert “, purchases or”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2162-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Services to enter into one or more
requirement contracts with Brom
Truck, Inc. for the purchase of
Crane
Carrier
cab
and
chassis

December 11, 2002
parts, including labor when necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, for a period not
to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2163-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Services
to enter into one or more requirement
contracts
with
Columbus
Equipment Co. for the purchase of
Blaw Knox Paver and Galion-Dresser-Komatsu construction equipment
parts, including labor when necessary, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2164-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Services
to enter into one or more requirement contracts with Ohio Machinery
Co. for the purchase of Barber
Greene road paver and Caterpillar
construction
equipment
parts,
including labor when necessary, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2165-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Services
to enter into one or more requirement contracts with Southeastern
Equipment Co., Inc. for the purchase
of Case and Grad-All construction
equipment parts, including labor
when necessary, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for a period
not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2166-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and

The City Record
materials necessary to repair, clean,
recore or replace radiators, heater
cores, gas tanks, and air conditioning units, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2167-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair police
motorcycles, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2168-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair, rebuild or replace hydraulic cylinders,
pumps, motors, valves, fuel injectors, drive shafts, gear boxes and
trailers, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by to Directors of Public Service, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Public Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2169-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of automotive
paint and related supplies, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2170-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of tire recapping, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

2675

65
Ord. No. 2181-02.
By Council Members Jackson and
Gordon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan and an
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant Agreement with MidTown
Technology Partners, LLC to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition, real property improvements,
new construction and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop
various properties between East
57th Street and East 61st Street
bounded by Chester and Euclid
Avenues, Cleveland, Ohio.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2182-02.
By Council Members Jackson and
Gordon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone
Agreement
with
MidTown
Technology Partners, LLC to provide for a ten year seventy-five percent tax abatement on certain real
property improvements as an incentive
to
develop,
construct
and
acquire various properties between
East 57th Street and East 61st Street
bounded by Chester and Euclid
Avenues which are located in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2228-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
salt spreader, insert, and plow parts,
including installation if necessary,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2229-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of automobile
and truck spring parts, including
installation if necessary, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:

66
1. In the title, line 4, and in Section 1, lines 4 and 5, strike “if necessary”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2230-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair or
replace
automotive,
truck,
and
equipment
glass,
including
any
related mechanical repairs, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2231-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of anti-freeze,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2232-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair vehicle frames and for vehicle alignments, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2233-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of ChevroletGMC vehicle parts, including installation if necessary, for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 2234-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Services
to enter into one or more requirement contracts with R&R Mack
Sales, Inc. for the purchase of E.Z.
Pack packer parts, including labor
when necessary, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for a period
not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2235-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Services
to enter into one or more requirement contracts with Jack Doheny
Supplies Ohio, Inc. for the purchase
of
Elgin
street
sweeper
parts,
including labor when necessary, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2236-02.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair or
replace fuel dispensing pumps and
systems necessary for fuel operations, fuel tankers, hydraulic lifts,
oil and great dispensing equipment,
stationary air compressors and for
emergency cleanup and replacement
of
leaking
underground
storage
tanks and systems, for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2244-02.
By Council Members Cintron, Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Marvin Avenue to
Civic Builders LLC.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on City Planning;
Passage
recommended
by
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

2676

December 11, 2002
Ord. No. 2252-02.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Cudell Improvement, Inc. to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the acquisition and
renovation of real property located
at 10505 Madison Avenue, and all
other associated costs necessary to
redevelop the property, located in
Cleveland, Ohio.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2304-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more agreements with
Data Access Corp. for the license of
and professional services for implementation of an upgrade to the Data
Flex licenses, permits, taxes and
assessments software, for the Division of Assessments and Licenses,
Department of Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2305-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more agreements with
Pinpoint Technologies, Inc. for the
license of and professional services
necessary for installation of and
training in software to electronically invoice EMS ambulance transports, in compliance with HIPPA
requirements, for the Division of
Assessments and Licenses, Department of Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2306-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of window
washing services, for the various
divisions of City government for a
period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2307-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more

December 11, 2002
requirement contracts of commercial
gases, for the various divisions of
City government for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2308-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to maintain or
repair overhead doors, for the various divisions of City government
for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2312-02.
By Council Members O’Malley,
Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into an agreement with the
City of Brooklyn to operate and
maintain
three
traffic
control
devices and pavement markings
located along the Ridge Road/I-480
to Brookpark Road area.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, line 3 and in Section 1, line 2, strike “operate and
maintain” and insert “transfer ownership, operation and control of”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2313-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant from the
Manor Care Foundation for the
Senior Assist Program.
Approved by Directors of Aging,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health and
Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2314-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant from the
Cleveland Foundation for the Benefits Checkup Program.
Approved by Directors of Aging,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health and
Human Services, Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2315-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
amend Contract No. 57953 with
Cleveland
Housing
Network
for
lead-evaluation services for additional housing units under the Scattered Site Project.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2316-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract or contracts of labor and materials necessary to install a structured wiring
system at the J. Glenn Smith Health
Center, for the Division of Health,
Department of Public Health.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2317-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Public
Health to enter into one or more
contracts with the Cuyahoga County Mental Health Board for psychiatric services for House of Corrections’ inmates, for the Division of
House of Corrections, Department
of Public Health, for a period of
one year.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 4, strike “01500300-663100” and insert “01-500300633100”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2318-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the Cardiovascular Disease Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Resources, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

2677

67
Ord. No. 2319-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant from the
Cleveland Foundation for the Are
You OK? Program.
Approved by Directors of Aging,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health and
Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2320-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Solid Waste
District for the 2003 Solid Waste
Disposal Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2321-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Public
Health to apply for and accept a
grant from the Ohio Department of
Health for the STD Control Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2322-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the Immunization Action
Plan Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In. Section 1, line 2, strike
“$92,586” and insert “$92,856”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2323-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into one or more contracts
with Adcom Communications, Inc.
for marketing services relating to
the STD/HIV Community Aware-

The City Record

68
ness Project, for the Division of
Health,
Department
of
Public
Health.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2324-02.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Public
Health to apply for and accept
grant
funds
from
the
USEPA
through University Hospital to provide standardized visual inspections and to collect dust for analysis of black mold.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2325-02.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Britt and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health
to lease space at the Mural Building, located at 1925 St. Clair Avenue, and associated parking lots,
from Mural Properties Company, or
its designee, for the purpose of providing office and administrative
space for the Department of Public
Health.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2330-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of Jacobsen
mower parts, for the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Ord. No. 543-02.
By Councilmen Johnson, Gordon
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1884-98,
passed December 14, 1998, relating
to a contract with E & L Properties,
Ltd. to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the construction and renovation of
real property at 9103 Buckeye Road,
Cleveland, Ohio.

Ord. No. 980-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, be enacting
new Section 571.89 thereof, relating
to the purchase of operational and
structural maintenance, labor and
materials for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
and Burke Lakefront Airport.
Ord. No. 1096-02.
By Councilmen Westbrook and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide the design for
enhancements to various electrical
vaults, feeders and substations at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport.
Res. No. 1735-02.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution urging
the Mayor and Director of Public
Safety to consider using the reverse
911 system as part of the City of
Cleveland safety initiative, and to
initiate a pilot program using this
technology in a number of neighborhoods for a period of twelve
months in order to determine overall effectiveness.
Without objection, the aforementioned legislation was relieved of
further consideration all committees
and was laid on the table pursuant
to the Rules of Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:30 p.m. to meet on Monday, December 16, 2002, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on
its final passage at the next meeting:
Ord. No. 2247-02.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into agreements
with various property owners to provide tax increment financing to partially finance certain improvements
as part of the Lower Euclid Avenue
Commercial and Residential District
redevelopment project and to provide for service payments in lieu of
taxes,
and
to
declare
certain
improvements to real property to be
a public purpose.

2678

December 11, 2002
BOARD OF CONTROL

December 4, 2002
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, December 4,
2002, at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Campbell presiding.
Present: Mayor Campbell, Directors Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Mok,
Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll,
Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek,
Romero, Acting Director Huth and
Director Fumich.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Carol Whitaker, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 768-02.
By Director Baker.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Boise Cascade Office Products,
Inc., for an estimated quantity of
office supplies, all items, for the
various divisions of City government, for the period of two (2) years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
November 1, 2002, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1069-02,
passed October 7, 2002, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Two Hundred Thirty Eight Thousand Six Hundred
Forty
Five
and
80/100
Dollars
($238,645.80), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Finance is hereby requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 104751
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Eleven Thousand Nine Hundred Forty and 00/100
Dollars ($11,940.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 769-02.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1077-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 17, 2002, Cuyahoga Community
College, is hereby selected from a
list of firms determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Utilities, as the firm to
be employed by contract to provide

December 11, 2002
professional services for beginning,
intermediate and/or advanced technology training services in 14 areas
for a period of six months, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities hereby is
requested to enter into a contract
with Cuyahoga Community College
based upon its proposal dated September 13, 2002, which contract shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
shall provide for furnishing Of professional services as contained in
said proposal, for an aggregate fee
not in excess of $380,000 and shall
contain such additional provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 770-02.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1077-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 17, 2002, Mincom, Inc., is hereby selected from a list of firms
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Public
Utilities, as the firm to be employed
by contract to provide professional
services for system administration,
support and end user training on
their software application for a
period of six months, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities hereby
is requested to enter into a contract with Mincom, Inc. based upon
its proposal dated September 13,
2002, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide for furnishing of professional services as contained in said
proposal, for an aggregate fee not
in excess of $380,000 and shall contain such additional provisions as
the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 771-02.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1077-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 17, 2002, Cleveland Municipal
School District, is hereby selected
from a list of firms determined after
a full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities, as the
firm to be employed by contract to
provide literacy training for a period of six months, for the Division of

The City Record
Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities hereby is
requested to enter into a contract
with Cleveland Municipal School
District based upon its proposal
dated September 13, 2002, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall provide for furnishing of professional services as
contained in said proposal, for an
aggregate fee not in excess of
$70,000 and shall contain such additional provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 772-02.
By Director Konicek.
be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 74202, adopted by the Board on November 13, 2002, approving Wesco Distribution, Inc. for high voltage
cable, Group D, H and I, item nos.
13 thru 18 and 31 thru 54, is amended by deleting the REQUISITION
NO. “122468” and substituting the
REQUISITION NO. “122467”.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 742-02 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 773-02.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on August 21, 2002
for an estimated quantity of labor
and materials necessary to repair
and maintain combination sewer
and catch basin cleaners, including
appurtenances for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 108402 passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on June 17, 2002 are
hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 774-02.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Universal Oil Inc. for an
estimated quantity of number 2 dyed
low sulfur diesel fuel, all items, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one (1) year

2679

69
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
2nd day of October 2002, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 52802, passed April 22, 2002, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Three Hundred
Thirty Eight Thousand Nine Hundred
Forty
and
no/100
Dollars
($338,940.00) (Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby
requested to enter into requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 122468
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Fifty Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($50,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 775-02.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Craun-Liebing Company
for an estimated quantity of labor
and materials necessary to repair
and maintain pump stations for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one (1) year beginning
with the execution of a contract,
received on the 23rd day of October
2002, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 346-02, passed April
22, 2002, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Eighty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
($80,000.00) (Net), is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby requested
to enter in requirement contract for
such commodities, which shall provide for the immediate purchase as
the initial amount of such contract
of the following:
Requisition No. 109320
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Forty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($40,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.

The City Record

70
Resolution No. 776-02.
By Director Mok.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1127-01, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
March 4, 2002, the firm of Servisair
USA/Global Ground Services, Inc. is
hereby selected upon the nomination
of the Director of Port Control from
a list of qualified persons or firms
available for such employment and
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Port Control as the firm of airport consultants to be employed by contract to
supplement the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City in order to provide management
services
to
assist
the
Department of Port Control in the
maintenance and operation of the
common use gates at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control hereby is
authorized to enter into a written
contract with Servisair USA/Global
Ground Services, Inc. based upon
its proposal, dated September 22,
2000, provided that the compensation to Servisair USA/Global Ground
Services, Inc. for the services authorized hereby shall not exceed Two
Hundred
Thousand
Dollars
($200,000.00), which contract shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such other provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that employment of the
following subconsultant by Servisair
USA/Global Ground Services, Inc. is
hereby approved:
Subconsultant
MBE/FBE %

52.26%

Amount

LonColeman Company
$112,878.00

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 777-02.
By Director Mok.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 2264-87, passed
by Cleveland City Council on October 19, 1987, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 324-98, adopted May
6, 1998, as amended by Board of
Control Resolution No. 431-98, adopted June 17, 1998, the City of Cleveland, through its Director of Port
Control entered into City Contract
No. 53294 with Landrum & Brown,
Inc. (“Consultant”) to provide professional services related to the
master plan for Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (“Cleveland
Hopkins”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Board of
Control Resolution No. 115-99, adopted March 3, 1999, the Director of
Port Control entered into a First
Amendment to City Contract No.
53294, revising the scope of work

December 11, 2002

and increasing the compensation
from an amount not to exceed Five
Hundred Eighty-two Thousand Five
Hundred Dollars ($582,500.00) to an
amount not to exceed Two Million
Twenty-eight Thousand Two Hundred Eleven and 70/100 Dollars
($2,028,211.70); and
Whereas, pursuant to Board of
Control Resolution No. 79-01, adopted February 14, 2001, the Director of
Port Control entered into a Second
Amendment to City Contract No.
53294, revising the scope of work
and increasing the compensation
from an amount not to exceed Two
Million
Twenty-Eight
Thousand
Two Hundred Eleven and 70/100
Dollars ($2,028,211.70) to an amount
not to exceed Two Million Eightyone Thousand Eight Hundred Ninety-Two
and
50/100
Dollars
($2,081,892.50); and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
through its Director of Port Control,
has determined it necessary to further revise the scope of work to
include additional professional services necessary for responding to
Federal
Aviation
Administration
comments related to the master plan
for
Cleveland
Hopkins;
drafting
Runway Safety Area Study (“RSA”);
401/404 permit issues and compliance; coordinate with the Federal
Aviation Administration regarding
the Record of Decision (ROD) compliance; and coordinate activities of
consulting parties to Section 106.
Whereas, Consultant has proposed
by its letter dated May 1, 2002, to
furnish such professional services;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into a Third
Amendment to City Contract No.
53294 between the City of Cleveland
and Landrum & Brown, Inc. for additional professional services necessary for responding to Federal Aviation
Administration
comments
related to the master plan for Cleveland
Hopkins;
drafting
Runway
Safety Area Study; 401/404 permit
issues and compliance; coordinate
with the Federal Aviation Administration regarding Record of Decision (ROD) compliance; and coordinate activities of consulting parties
to Section 106 as set forth in Consultant’s letter dated May 1, 2002.
The amount to be paid for all services shall be increased by Two
Hundred
Eighty-Four
Thousand
Two Hundred Nine and 81/100 Dollars ($284,209.81) from Two Million
Eighty-one Thousand Eight Hundred Ninety-Two and 50/100 Dollars
($2,081,892.50) to a total amount not
to exceed Two Million Three Hundred Sixty-Six Thousand One Hundred
Two
and
31/100
Dollars
($2,366,102.31).
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subconsultant by Landrum & Brown, Inc. is hereby approved:
Subconsultant
MBE/FBE %

Amount

Environment & Archaeology, LLC
21.1% FBE
$60,000.00

2680

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 778-02.
By Director Mok.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 900-02,
passed June 17, 2002 and Board of
Control Resolution No. 764-02, adopted November 20, 2002, approving
Michael Benza and Associates, Inc.
for professional surveying services
for the Department of Port Control,
the employment of the following
subcontractors for the above-mentioned services is hereby approved:
SUBCONSULTANTS
MBE/FBE %
Amount
L.V. Surveying
FBE 5%

$10,000.00

Bemba K. Jones, P.S.
MBE 15%
$30,000.00
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 779-02.
By Director Mok.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that the bid
of BP Britches, Inc., for the purchase of work uniforms, Sections
Nos. 2, 3 and 5, Items Nos. 31-57 and
67-78, for various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a
period not to exceed one year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on the 12th day
of September, 2002, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 591-02,
passed on May 20, 2002, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to One Hundred Two
Thousand Five Hundred Fifty Four
and 00/100 Dollars ($102,554.00), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Port Control is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services necessary, which shall provide for the immediate purchase as
the initial amount of such contract
of the following:
Requisition No. 124682
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Fifty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($50,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,

December 11, 2002
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 780-02.
By Director Mok.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that the
bid of Stonewall Uniform Corporation, for the purchase of work uniforms, Section No. 1, Item Nos. 1-30,
for various divisions of the Department of Port Control, for a period
not to exceed one year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on the 12th day of
September, 2002, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 591-02,
passed on May 20, 2002, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Eighty Seven
Thousand Six Hundred Five and
00/100 Dollars ($87,605.00), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director
of
Port
Control
is
hereby
requested to enter into a requirement
contract
for
such
goods
and/or services necessary, which
shall provide for the immediate
purchase as the initial amount of
such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 124680
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Forty
Thousand
and
00/100
Dollars
($40,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 781-02.
By Director Mok.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that the bid
of Aramark Uniform Services, a
Division of Aramark Uniform &
Career Apparel, Inc., for the purchase of work uniforms, Section No.
4, Item Nos. 58-66, for various divisions of the Department of Port Control, for a period not to exceed one
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
12th day of September, 2002, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 591-02, passed on May 20, 2002,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to Fifteen
Thousand Five Hundred Fifty and
50/100 Dollars ($15,550.50), is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is hereby requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
such goods and/or services necessary, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:

The City Record
Requisition No. 124681
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Fifteen Thousand Five Hundred Fifty and 50/100
Dollars ($15,550.50).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 782-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 920-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland
June 3, 2002, the firm of Garrett &
Associates, Inc. (“Consultant”) is
hereby selected upon the nomination
of the Director of Public Service
from a list of qualified consultants
or firms of such consultants, as
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Public
Service, as the firm to be employed
by contract to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional surveying services on various capital
improvement projects for a period
not to exceed one year.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Service hereby is
authorized to enter into contract
with said Consultant based upon its
proposal dated July 17, 2002 and September 17, 2002, which contract shall
provide that the compensation to be
paid shall not exceed $30,885.00. The
contract authorized hereby shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such other provisions,
as said Director deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Garrett & Associates,
Inc. for the contract herein authorized hereby is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS
Bemba K. Jones, P.S. & Associates
(MBE — 15.02%)
Heights Title Agency
(MBE — 4.70%)
LV Surveying, Inc.
(FBE — 4.70%)
City Blue Printing Co.
(FBE — 0.65%)
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.

2681

71
Resolution No. 783-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Gibson-Stewart Company
for an estimated quantity of Ford
tractor,
mower
and
construction
equipment parts and labor, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
for the period of two (2) years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on September 18, 2002, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 915-02,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 17, 2002, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Four Hundred
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($400,000.00) (Net), is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Service is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 127207
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Fifty Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($50,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 784-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Rice Oil Company, Inc. for
an estimated quantity of lubricants
(Part A) and windshield washer solvent (Part C) all items, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, for
the period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on September 26,
2002, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 908-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 17, 2002, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to One Hundred Eighty One
Thousand Six Hundred Fifty and
10/100 Dollars ($181,650.10) (2% - 15
Days)
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 127208
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($20,000.00).

72
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 785-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Frank Blackmon for an
estimated quantity of lubricants
(Part B) all items, for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, for
the period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on September 26,
2002, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 908-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 17, 2002, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Forty Eight Thousand
One Hundred Twenty Nine and
15/100 Dollars ($48,129.15) (2% - Net
30 Days) is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 127209
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Ten Thousand
and no/100 Dollars ($10,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 786-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Refuse Equipment and Truck Service, Inc. for a quantity of front end
loader and roll-off dumpster containers, all items, for the Division of
Waste
Collection
and
Disposal,
Department
of
Public
Service,
received on 17th day of October,
2002, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1424-02, passed July
17, 2002, which on the basis of the
order quantities would amount to
Thirty Nine Thousand Seventy Five
and no/100 Dollars ($39,075.00), is
hereby approved as the lowest and

The City Record
best bid, and the Director of Public
Service is hereby requested to enter
into a contract for such items.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 787-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc., for
an estimated quantity of cab/chassis with flat bed/sanitation equipment, for the various divisions of
City government, for the period of
one (1) year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on October 31, 2002, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1262-02, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on July 17,
2002, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
Fifty-Eight Thousand Five Hundred
Fifty-Three
and
00/100
Dollars
($58,553.00) (0% - 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Finance is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 127234
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Fifty-Eight
Thousand Five Hundred Fifty-Three
and 00/100 Dollars ($58,553.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.

December 11, 2002
for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 127236
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Eighty
Five Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($85,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 789-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Royal Landscape for
the public improvement of Clark
Commons Site Improvements, for
Base Bid Items #1 - #13 including
the 10% contingency for the Division of Research, Planning & Development, Department of Parks,
Recreation & Properties, received on
September 25, 2002, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1017-02,
passed on May 20, 2002 as amended
by Ordinance No. 1947-02, passed on
September 30, 2002, upon a unit basis
for the improvement in the aggregate amount of Twenty Nine Thousand Eight Hundred Ten and 99/100
Dollars
($29,810.99),
is
hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director
of Department of Parks, Recreation
& Properties is hereby authorized to
enter into contract for said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Royal Landscape for the aforementioned public improvement hereby is
approved:
Subcontractors

Resolution No. 788-02.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Tire Distributors, Inc. for
an estimated quantity of various
new tires group B, C, D, E, I and K,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service, for the period of two (2)
years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
October 24, 2002, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 917-02,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 17, 2002, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Six Hundred Twenty Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($620,000.00)
(1%),
is
hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Service is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract

2682

Responsibility
Cook Paving
(MBE)

Excavation, Topsoil

Barrow Sign
(FBE)

Signage

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 790-02.
By Acting Director Glending.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of R. DiLillo & Company for the public improvement of
Barkwill Park Site Improvements,

The City Record

December 11, 2002
for Base Bid Items #1 - #18, #22 #53 and Alternate Items #A2 - #A4
including the 5% contingency for
the Division of Research, Planning
&
Development,
Department
of
Parks,
Recreation &
Properties,
received on October 9, 2002, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1013-02, passed on May 20, 2002
as amended by Ordinance No. 139402, passed on July 17, 2002, upon a
unit basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of Three
Hundred Five Thousand Four Hundred
Ten
and
88/100
Dollars
($305,410.88), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid;
and
the Director
of
Department of Parks, Recreation &
Properties is hereby authorized to
enter
into
contract
for
said
improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by R.
DiLillo & Company for the aforementioned public improvement hereby is approved:
Subcontractors
Cook Paving
(MBE)
United Ready Mix
(MBE)
Barrow Sign
(FBE)

Responsibility

Asphalt

Concrete

Signage

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 791-02.
By Acting Director Carroll.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of S. S. Kemp Co. for an estimated
quantity of purchase and installation of dishwasher (all items) for
the Division of Correction, Department of Public Health, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract received on the 3rd day of
October,
2002,
pursuant
to
the
authority of Ordinance No. 1203-2000
passed August 7, 2000, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Fourteen Thousand Eight Hundred Eighty Five
and
00/100
Dollars
($14,885.00)
(Net), is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Health is
hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 124354
Purchase and installation of dishwasher
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Fourteen
Thousand
Eight
Hundred
Eight
Five and 00/100 Dollars ($14,885.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the

requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 792-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City, has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 004-02-087 located at Bradford
Court in Ward 13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., abutting/adjacent landowner; has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcel;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976 the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Cleveland
Housing Network, Inc. for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel No. 004-02-087 located at Bradford
Court, in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.

2683

73
Resolution No. 793-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City, has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 007-08-162 located at 2171 West
34th Street in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Cleveland Housing Network, LTD — Partnership XVI,
abutting/adjacent landowner; has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976 the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Cleveland
Housing Network, LTD — Partnership XVI for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00708-162 located at 2171 West 34th
Street, in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 794-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 007-08-077 located at West 33rd
Street in Ward 14; and

74
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Ohio City Near West
Development
Corporation,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development, and the
Mayor is hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland,
with Ohio City Near West Development Corporation for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 007-08-077 located at West 33rd
Street, in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 795-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent
Parcel
No(s).
115-04-016
under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1538-02
passed September 30, 2002, authorized the sale of said parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Julius B. Thomas has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1538-02 passed September 30, 2002, by the Cleveland

The City Record
City Council, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Julius B. Thomas
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No(s). 115-04-016, as
described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1,500.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 796-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent
Parcel
No(s).
127-16-129
under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1849-02
passed October 28, 2002, authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1849-02 passed October
30, 2002, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No(s).
127-16-129, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the fair
market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 797-02.
By Director Hudecek.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of C & J Contractors, Inc. for the
following: Demolition of Hazeldell
School for the Division of Building
& Housing, Department of Commu-

2684

December 11, 2002
nity Development received on the
25th day of September, 2002, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1007-A-1998, passed June 15, 1998,
which on the basis of the order
quantities
would
amount
to
$170,000.00 Dollars is hereby approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Community
Development is hereby requested to
enter into contract for such items.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Konicek, Ricchiuto,
Acting
Directors
Carroll,
Smith,
Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Huth and Director
Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 23, 2002
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 02-351: 6830 Beaver
Avenue (Ward 5)
Joseph Cooper, owner, appeals to
establish use of an existing approximate 26' x 98' one-story masonry
garage building as an auto repair
garage all situated on a 105' x 403'
parcel located in a Semi-Industry
District on the south side of Beaver
Avenue at 6830 Beaver Avenue; said
use being contrary to the Industrial
District Requirements where the
proposed repair garage is 50' from
a Multi-Family District to the west
and auto repair garages are permit-

December 11, 2002
ted in a Semi-Industry District, provided that such use is located not
less than 100' from a residence district
as
stated
in
Section
345.03(c)(2) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-352: 16327 Delrey
Avenue (Ward 1)
Camille Wilson, owner, appeals to
establish use of an existing 24' x
26' two-story, frame dwelling house
as a Type A day care facility all
situated on an approximate 75' x
147' irregular shaped parcel located
in an A1 One-Family District on the
east side of Delrey Avenue at 16327
Delrey Avenue; said use being contrary to the Residential District Requirements, where the proposed use
abuts and is located in a One Family District and a day care use is
required to be 30' away from any
adjoining premises in a residence
district not used for similar purposes and requires the Board of Zoning
Appeals approval as stated in Section 337.02 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-354: 17909 Sedalia
Avenue (Ward 21)
Frank Bemak, owner, appeals to
construct a 12' x 16' wolmanized
open deck to the rear of an existing
one and one-half dwelling all situated on a 40' x 150' parcel located
in a One-Family District on the
south side of Sedalia Avenue at
17909 Sedalia Avenue; said construction being contrary to the Yards and
Courts Requirements, where a 12'
front projection is proposed and
open porches shall not project more
than
6'
as
stated
in
Section
357.14(b) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-355: 7512 Broadway
Avenue (Ward 12)
Chester Partika, owner, appeals to
establish use of an existing approximate 93' x 227' parcel as a used
car lot and to construct a 30' x 39'
one-story office and repair garage
building all situated on an approximate 99' x 230' parcel located in a
Semi-Industry District on the west
side of Broadway Avenue at 7512
Broadway Avenue; said use and construction being contrary to the
Industrial
District
Requirements,
where the proposed use is 15' from
a
residence
district
and
repair
garages are permitted in a SemiIndustry District if located not less
than 100' from a residence district
as stated in Section 345.03(c)(2) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 02-356: 1977 West 105th
Street (Ward 19)
West
Cleveland
Management,
owner c/o Edward Hardin, appeals
to park a vehicle in the front yard
setback area of a 24' x 102' parcel
located in a Semi-Industry District
on the east side of West 105th
Street at 1977 West 105th Street;
said parking being contrary to the
Off-Street
Parking
and
Loading
Requirements of Section 349.05(a),
where all such parking shall be
located behind the specific setback
building line and 10' from any wall
of a residential building and a driveway and apron are required as
stated in Section 349.07(c) of the
Codified Ordinances.

The City Record
Calendar No. 02-357: 3895 West 136th
Street (Ward 20)
Michael A. Sopko, owner, appeals
to install approximately 57 linear
feet of 4' high chain link fencing to
the rear and side yards of a 35' x
120' corner parcel located in an A1
One-Family District on the east side
of West 136th Street at 3895 West
136th Street; said installation being
contrary to the Fence Regulations,
where only ornamental fences shall
be installed in actual front yards
and actual side street yards if located in a residential district and within 4' of the side street property line
as stated in Section 358.04(c)(1) of
the Codified Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

75
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 02-223: 12222 Lorain
Avenue postponed to February 3,
2003.
Calendar No. 02-194: 2097 West 28th
Street postponed to January 13,
2003.
Calendar No. 02-195: 2712 Chatham
Avenue postponed to January 13,
2003.
On Monday, December 9, 2002, in
Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on Monday, December
2, 2002, and said decisions were
adopted and approved in Executive
Session on December 9, 2002:

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2002
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, December 9, 2002, the following appeals
were heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 02-333: 15116 Lakeshore
Boulevard
Abundant Faith Apostolic Church
appealed to change the use of an 82'
x 102' one-story masonry building
into a church in a Local Retail Business District; subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 02-338: 1452 West 48th
Street
Moneef Ammari appealed to construct a one-story frame addition
for
storage
to
the
rear
of a
dwelling house in a Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 02-341: 5011 Lorain Avenue
Best & Associates appealed to construct a 40' x 132' parking lot for
11 parking spaces on a corner parcel in a Local Retail Business District.

The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 02-325: 2617 East 127th
Street
Melinda Steele appealed to construct a 28' x 30' one-story frame
accessory garage on an existing
foundation in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-330: 317 East 156th
Street
Northeast
Shores
Development
Corporation appealed to change the
use of the first floor of a two-story
masonry building into offices in a
Local Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 02-327: 14930 Sylvia
Avenue
Kenneth Riley appealed to construct a 24' x 24' one-story frame
garage to the front of an existing
24' x 26' garage all to the rear of
a parcel in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-332: 12706 Brighton
Avenue
Clement Andera appealed to construct a 36' x 40' one-story frame
garage to the rear of a parcel in a
One-Family District.

The following appeals were Denied:

The following appeal was heard
by the Board on November 25, 2002
and the decision to approve was
adopted on December 9, 2002:

Calendar No. 02-334: 12000 Oakland
Avenue
Ike and Hattie Oliver appealed to
install 88 linear feet of 6' high wooden fencing to the west of a 30' x 93'
parcel in a Two-Family District.

Calendar No. 02-320: 8837 St. Clair
Avenue
Church of Christ Sowinski, Inc. appealed to change the use of a warehouse/office building into a church
in a Local Retail Business District.

Calendar No. 02-340: 18114 Fairville
Avenue
Pamela Salmon appealed to establish use of a one-story dwelling
house as a Type A day care facility in an A1 One-Family District.

EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 02-285: 3111 East 93rd
Street
Jamal Hanini appealed to construct a new service station with 3
pump islands on a 150' x 170' corner parcel in a Local Retail Business District.

2685

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
December 4, 2002
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of

The City Record

76
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-96-02.
RE: Appeal of Montlack Management, Owner of the One Story
Masonry Property located on the
premises known as 15700 Lakeshore
Boulevard from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated May 7,
2002, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to modify the
Commissioner’s 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS and LETTER
OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH by
granting the Appellant three (3)
months in which to abate the violations, and to require that the property be maintained secured and the
grounds debris free during that period of time. Upon passage of this
motion, this matter shall be REMANDED at the end of that time to
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. All other provisions of the 30
DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MS and LETTER OF INTENTION
TO DEMOLISH not modified by this
decision shall remain in full force
and effect, including the provisions
that the City may abate the nuisance conditions of the premises by
means of demolition if abatement of
the violations is not completed by
March 18, 2003. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-97-02.
RE: Appeal of Montlack Management, Owner of the One Story
Masonry Property located on the
premises known as 15800 Lakeshore
Boulevard from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated May 7,
2002, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to modify the
Commissioner’s 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS and LETTER OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH by granting the Appellant three
(3) months in which to abate the
violations, and to require that the
property be maintained secured and
the grounds debris free during that
period of time. Upon passage of this
motion, this matter shall be REMANDED at the end of that time to
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. All other provisions of the 30
DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MS and LETTER OF INTENTION
TO DEMOLISH not modified by this
decision shall remain in full force
and effect, including the provisions

that the City may abate the nuisance conditions of the premises by
means of demolition if abatement of
the violations is not completed by
March 18, 2003. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-143-02.
RE: Appeal of Donna T. Gaston,
Owner of the Two Story Masonry
Mixed/ Commercial & Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 11216 Superior Avenue
from a 30 DAY VACATE ORDER/30
DAY DETERIORATED CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing,
dated July 24, 2002, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to modify the
Commissioner’s 30 DAY VACATE
ORDER/30 DAY DETERIORATED
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE
and
LETTER
OF
INTENTION
TO
DEMOLISH
by
granting the Appellant three (3)
months in which to obtain permits
for abatement of the violations.
Upon passage of this motion, this
matter shall be REMANDED at this
time to the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
for supervision and any required
further action. All other provisions
of the 30 DAY VACATE ORDER/30
DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE and LETTER
OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH not
modified by this decision shall remain in full force and effect, including the provisions that the City may
abate the nuisance conditions of the
premises by means of demolition if
abatement of the violations is not
completed by March 18, 2003. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-151-02.
RE: Appeal of Virginia L. Demmings, Owner of the Two Family
Two & One/half Story Frame Residential Property located on the
premises known as 3391 East 114th
Street from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing,
dated September 6, 2002, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to modify the
Commissioner’s 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE and LETTER OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH by granting
the Appellant three (3) months in
which to obtain permits and an additional three (3) months in which to
abate the violations. Upon passage
of this motion, this matter shall be

2686

December 11, 2002
REMANDED at this time to the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. All other provisions of the 30
DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE and LETTER
OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH not
modified by this decision shall
remain in full force and effect,
including the provisions that the
City may abate the nuisance conditions of the premises by means of
demolition if abatement of the violations is not completed by June 18,
2003. Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-155-02.
RE: Appeal of Saxon Mortgage,
Inc.,
Mortgagee
of
the
One
&
One/half Story Frame/One Dwelling
Unit Residential Property located on
the premises known as 6917 Park
Avenue from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE & GARAGE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing, dated August 26, 2002,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 6917 Park Avenue to the
Division of Building and Housing
for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-158-02.
RE: Appeal of John Fuduric,
Owner of the One Story Masonry
Commercial Property located on the
premises known as 777 East 185th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — ILLEGAL USE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing, dated September 9,
2002, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
Docket A-158-02 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
December 18, 2002.
*

*

*

Docket A-165-02.
RE: Appeal of Susan M. Pawlak,
Owner of the One & One/half Story
Frame/One Dwelling Unit Residential Property located on the premises known as 3204 East 57th Street
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing, dated September 3,
2002, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant three (3) months in which
to obtain permits, the property is

The City Record

December 11, 2002
REMANDED at this time to the
Division of Building and Housing
for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-176-02.
RE: Appeal of Kurt C. Weaver,
Owner of the Unit Residential Property located on the premises known
as 1924 Valentine Avenue from a
NOTICE OF NONCONFORMANCE of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated November 7, 2002, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
requested variance for the fixed
transom windows, noting that the
adjacent property exists and is ten
(10) feet from the residence. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-178-02.
RE: Appeal of John Calicchia,
Owner of the Property located on
the
premises
known
as
3855
Carnegie Avenue from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing, dated November 15,
2002, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal and to require that an automatic
sprinkler
system
to
be
installed in the basement; and to
require that the stairs, the emergency exit out of the building, be
protected with a permanent structure
to preclude the introduction of ice
and snow in that stairwell; noting
that no further technical analysis is
required except for the issues of the
sprinkler system and the enclosure
required for the stairs and that documentation shall be issued to the
Building Department complying with
the code in those respects. Motion so
in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Saunders
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC):
A-130-02—Northcoast Developers, Inc.
A-152-02—Richard Hershbain.

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-135-02—Evelyn B. Rowsers.
A-136-02—Helen Roberts.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

77
Docket A-123-02 — Charles Minadeo
— 2515 Jay Avenue:
FROM: .... to require the Appellant
to provide the required plans and
information to the Chief Building
Official for review and issue the
group classification in both the R-1
and R-2 categories....
TO: .... to DENY the appeal and to
require the Appellant to provide the
required plans and information to
the Chief Building Official for review and issuance of the group classification in both the R-1 and R-2
categories....
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Saunders for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolution as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Docket, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC):

PUBLIC NOTICE

A-159-02—University Hospitals Health
System.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolution as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Docket, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC):
A-172-02—Judy Chiu.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Saunders for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC):
November 20, 2002
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

AMENDED RESOLUTION
FROM NOVEMBER 6, 2002:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Amended Resolution as presented by the Secretary for the following Docket, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC):

2687

EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

NONE

Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Monday, December 16, 2002
9:00 A.M.
Notice is hereby given to all
interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning will hold a public hearing in
the
Mercedes
Cotner Committee
Room 217, City Hall, Cleveland,
Ohio, on Monday, December 16, 2002,
at 9:00 A.M., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the
Council:
Ord. No. 2069-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the zoning of a property on the east side
of West 11th Street, south of Fairfield Avenue to a Local Retail District. (Map Change No. 2060, Sheet
No. 5)
Ord. No. 2119-02.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the zoning of a property at 8205 Franklin
Avenue to a Multi-Family Residential District, an “F” Area District,
and a “F” Height District. (Map
Change No. 2061, Sheet No. 1)
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
JOSEPH C. CIMPERMAN,
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
_____
December 11, 2002

The City Record

78
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
Notice of Public Hearing
of the
City of Cleveland
Records Commission
Notice is hereby given in accordance with Chapter 149 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Chapter 167 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland,
that
the
Cleveland
Records Commission will hold a public meeting on Thursday December
19, 2002 at 2:00 p.m. in Room 106 City
Hall, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio for the purpose of considering records retention and disposal requests.
_____
December 11, 2002 and December 18, 2002

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 2002
Aviation Insurance, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public
Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2172-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 11, 2002.
December 4, 2002 and December 11, 2002
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2002
Jacobsen Mower Parts, for the Various
Divisions,
Department
of
Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2330-02, pending.

Bunker Gear Suits, for the Various
Divisions, Department of Port Control, as authorized by Ordinance No.
1093-02, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, July 17, 2002.
December 4, 2002 and December 11, 2002
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 20, 2002
Replacement
of
Five
Peerless
Pumps, for the Division of Convention Center, Department of
Parks, Recreation & Properties, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 198102, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, October 21, 2002.
Medical Supplies, for the Division of
Emergency Medical Service, Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 216401, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, February 4,
2002.
Security Systems, for the Division of
Civil & Criminal, Department of
Cleveland
Municipal
Court,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 214201, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, April 1, 2002.
December 4, 2002 and December 11, 2002
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2003
Tree Trimming Around Wires and
Street Lights, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1079-02,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 17, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2002
AT 2:00 P.M., AT CLEVELAND
PUBLIC POWER, LOCATED AT
1300 LAKESIDE AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Repair and Maintain Combination
Sewer and Catch Basin Cleaners,
for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1084-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 17, 2002.
(S) Computer Related Hardware
Equipment, for the Various Divisions, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 193602, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, September 30,
2002.
December 11, 2002 and December 18, 2002
THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 2003
Shot Guns, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 646-92,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 1, 1992.
9MM Glock Pistols Model 17, 19, 26 &
(3) Magazines for Each Weapon,
for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 646-92,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 1, 1992.
Electric Motors and Pumps, for the
Division of Property Management,
Department of Parks, Recreation
& Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 539-02, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, April 22, 2002.
December 11, 2002 and December 18, 2002

2688

December 11, 2002
The Department of Port Control is
seeking responses to a Request
for Qualifications (RFQ) for Professional
Services
for
Airfield
Improvements
at
CHIA
and
Burke, for the Department of Port
Control.
Copies of the RFQ may be obtained
from the Department of Port Control, Cleveland Hopkins International, 19501 Five Points, Cleveland, Ohio 44135.
The pre-qualification meeting is
December 18, 2002 at 9:30 am in
the PMT conference room at 19501
Five Points, Cleveland, OH 44135.
Proposals are due to the Department of Port Control by Friday,
January 3, 2003 at Noon. Please
deliver proposals to the following
address: Department of Port Control, Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport,
5300
Riverside
Drive, 2nd Floor of the Terminal
Cleveland, Ohio 44135.
December 11, 2002 and December 18, 2002

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, December 9, 2002
9:30 A.M.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Britt, Chair; Zone,
Vice Chair; Gordon, Scott, Conwell,
Polensek, Sweeney, Member Pro
Tempore. Authorized Absence: Cintron.
11:00 A.M.
Public Service Committee: Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Jones, Vice Chair;
Polensek, White, O’Malley, Zone, Cimperman, Brady, Johnson.
2:00 P.M.
Finance Committee: Present: Jackson, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Westbrook, Gordon, Reed,
White,
O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.
Tuesday, December 10, 2002
9:30 A.M.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Gordon, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;
Reed, Pierce-Scott, Zone, Lewis,
Coats. Authorized Absence: Cintron,
Jones.
Wednesday, December 11, 2002
10:00 A.M.
Aviation & Transportation Committee: Present: Westbrook, Chair;
Sweeney, Vice Chair; Dolan, Britt,
Rybka, Gordon, Reed.
1:30 P.M.
City Planning Committee: Present:
Cimperman, Chair; Conwell, Scott,
Westbrook,
Authorized
Absence:
Rybka, Vice Chair; O’Malley, Lewis.

December 11, 2002

The City Record

79

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Are You OK? Program — grant — Cleveland Foundation (O 2319-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Benefits Checkup Program — grant — Cleveland Foundation (O 2314-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Senior Assist Program — grant — Manor Care Foundation (O 2313-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Western Reserve Area Agency — Grant (F 2422-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613

Agreements
Cleveland Stadium — lease purchase agreement — supplement (O 2369-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

Appropriations
Temporary appropriation — 2003 (O 2394-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2662

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Carnegie Avenue, 3855, (Ward 5) – John Calicchia, owner — appeal resolved on 12/4/02
(Doc. A-178-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
Cedar Avenue, 7709, (Ward 3) – Helen Roberts, owner — appeal adopted on 12/4/02
(Doc. A-136-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
Cornell Road, 2033, (Ward 9) – University Hospitals Health System, owner — appeal adopted
on 12/4/02 (Doc. A-159-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
East 105th Street, 1387, (Ward 9) – Evelyn B. Rowsers (Deceased) c/o Tera Robinson, owner —
appeal adopted on 12/4/02 (Doc. A-135-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
East 114th Street, 3391, (Ward 3) – Virginia L. Demmings, owner — appeal resolved
on 12/4/02 (Doc. A-151-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2686
East 122nd Street, 2663, (Ward 6) – Richard Nershbain, owner — appeal adopted on 12/4/02
(Doc. A-152-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
East 185th Street, 777, (Ward 11) – Saxon Mortgage, Inc., Mortgagee — appeal rescheduled
to 12/18/02 on 12/4/02 (Doc. A-158-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2686
East 57th Street, 3204, (Ward 12) – Susan M. Pawlak, owner — appeal resolved on 12/4/02
(Doc. A-165-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2686
Grand Avenue, 2801, (Ward 5) – Northcoast Developers, Inc., owner — appeal adopted
on 12/4/02 (Doc. A-130-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
Jay Avenue, 2515, (Ward 13) – Charles Minadeo, owner — appeal amended and denied on
12/4/02 (Doc. A-123-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
Lakeshore Boulevard, 15700, (Ward 11) – Montlack Management, owner — appeal resolved on
12/4/02 (Doc. A-96-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2686
Lakeshore Boulevard, 15800, (Ward 11) – Montlack Management, owner — appeal resolved on
12/4/02 (Doc. A-97-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2686
Park Avenue, 6917, (Ward 12) – Saxon Mortgage, Inc., Mortgagee — appeal resolved on
12/4/02 (Doc. A-155-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2686
Superior Avenue, 11216, (Ward 9) – Donna T. Gaston, owner — appeal resolved on 12/4/02
(Doc. A-143-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2686
Superior Road, 3620, (Ward 13) – Judy Chiu, owner — appeal adopted on 12/4/02
(Doc. A-172-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
Valentine Avenue, 1924, (Ward 14) – Kurt C. Weaver, owner — appeal resolved on 12/4/02
(Doc. A-176-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687

Board of Control — Barkwill Park
Barkwill Park site improvements — contract per Ord. 1013-02 and 1394-02 to R. DiLillo &
Company — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (BOC Res. 790-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682

Board of Control — Building and Housing Division
Hazeldell School demolition — contract per Ord. 1007-A-98 to C & J Contractors, Inc. Division of Building and Housing, Dept. of Community Development
(BOC Res. 797-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2684

2689

The City Record

80

December 11, 2002

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Management services, common use gates — contract per Ord. 1127-01 to Servisair USA
/ Global Ground Services, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 776-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2680
Master Plan planning services for Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — amend
Contract #53294 per BOC Res. 324-98, 431-98 and 79-01 — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 777-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2680

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Diesel fuel — contract per Ord. 528-02 to Universal Oil, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 774-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
High voltage cable — amend BOC Res. 742-02 — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 772-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Bradford Court (Ward 13) — PPN 004-02-087 — to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(BOC Res. 792-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2683
East 140th Street, 1047 (Ward 10) — PPN 115-04-016 — to Julius B. Thomas
(BOC Res. 795-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2684
Fuller Avenue, 9520 (Ward 5) — PPN 127-16-129 — to Burten, Bell Carr Development, Inc.
(BOC Res. 796-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2684
Hazeldell School demolition — contract per Ord. 1007-A-98 to C & J Contractors, Inc. Division of Building and Housing, Dept. of Community Development
(BOC Res. 797-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2684
West 33rd Street (Ward 14) — PPN 007-08-077 — to Ohio City Near West
Development Corporation (BOC Res. 794-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2683
West 34th Street, 2171 (Ward 14) — PPN 007-08-162 — to Cleveland Housing Network LTD —
Partnership XVI (BOC Res. 793-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2683

Board of Control — Correction Division
Dishwasher — contract per Ord. 1203-2000 to S.S. Kemp Co. — Dept. of Public Health
(BOC Res. 791-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2683

Board of Control — Finance Department
Cab / chassis with flat bed / sanitation equipment — contract per Ord. 1262-02 to Valley
Ford Truck Sales, Inc. (BOC Res. 787-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682
Office supplies — contract per Ord. 1069-02 to Boise Cascade Office Products, Inc.
(BOC Res. 768-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Bradford Court (Ward 13) — PPN 004-02-087 — to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(BOC Res. 792-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2683
East 140th Street, 1047 (Ward 10) — PPN 115-04-016 — to Julius B. Thomas
(BOC Res. 795-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2684
Fuller Avenue, 9520 (Ward 5) — PPN 127-16-129 — to Burten, Bell Carr Development, Inc.
(BOC Res. 796-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2684
West 33rd Street (Ward 14) — PPN 007-08-077 — to Ohio City Near West
Development Corporation (BOC Res. 794-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2683
West 34th Street, 2171 (Ward 14) — PPN 007-08-162 — to Cleveland Housing Network LTD —
Partnership XVI (BOC Res. 793-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2683

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 5)
Fuller Avenue, 9520 (Ward 5) — PPN 127-16-129 — to Burten, Bell Carr Development, Inc.
(BOC Res. 796-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2684

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 10)
East 140th Street, 1047 (Ward 10) — PPN 115-04-016 — to Julius B. Thomas
(BOC Res. 795-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2684

2690

December 11, 2002

The City Record

81

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 13)
Bradford Court (Ward 13) — PPN 004-02-087 — to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(BOC Res. 792-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2683
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 14)
West 33rd Street (Ward 14) — PPN 007-08-077 — to Ohio City Near West
Development Corporation (BOC Res. 794-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2683
West 34th Street, 2171 (Ward 14) — PPN 007-08-162 — to Cleveland Housing Network LTD Partnership XVI (BOC Res. 793-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2683

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment parts and labor — contract per Ord. 915-02
to Gibson-Stewart Company — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 783-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2681
Lubricants — contract per Ord. 908-02 to Frank Blackmon — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 785-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682
Lubricants, windshield washer solvent — contract per Ord. 908-02 to Rice Oil
Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 784-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2681
Tires, new — contract per Ord. 917-02 to Tire Distributors, Inc. — Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 788-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Barkwill Park site improvements — contract per Ord. 1013-02 and 1394-02 to R. DiLillo &
Company — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (BOC Res. 790-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682
Clark Commons site improvements — contract per Ord. 1017-02 and 1947-02
to Royal Landscape — Division of Research, Planning and Development
(BOC Res. 789-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Management services, common use gates — contract per Ord. 1127-01 to Servisair USA
/ Global Ground Services, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(BOC Res. 776-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2680
Master Plan planning services for Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — amend
Contract #53294 per BOC Res. 324-98, 431-98 and 79-01 — Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 777-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2680
Professional surveying services — approve subconsultants per BOC Res. 764-02
(BOC Res. 778-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2680
Uniforms, work — contract per Ord. 591-02 to Aramark Uniform Services, a division
of Aramark Uniform & Career Apparel, Inc. (BOC Res. 781-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2681
Uniforms, work — contract per Ord. 591-02 to BP Britches, Inc.
(BOC Res. 779-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2680
Uniforms, work — contract per Ord. 591-02 to Stonewall Uniform Corporation
(BOC Res. 780-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2681
Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Literacy training — contract per Ord. 1077-02 to Cleveland Municipal School District Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 771-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Management services, common use gates — contract per Ord. 1127-01 to Servisair
USA / Global Ground Services, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 776-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2680
Master Plan planning services for Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — amend
Contract #53294 per BOC Res. 324-98, 431-98 and 79-01 — Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 777-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2680
Professional surveying services — approve subconsultants per BOC Res. 764-02 — Dept. of
Port Control (BOC Res. 778-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2680
Software system administration, support and training — contract per Ord. 1077-02 to
Mincom, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 770-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Surveying services, capital improvement projects — contract per Ord. 920-02 to Garrett
& Associates, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 782-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2681
Technology training services — contract per Ord. 1077-02 to Cuyahoga Community College —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 769-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678

2691

The City Record

82

December 11, 2002

Board of Control — Public Health Department
Dishwasher — contract per Ord. 1203-2000 to S.S. Kemp Co. — Division of Correction
(BOC Res. 791-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2683

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Barkwill Park site improvements — contract per Ord. 1013-02 and 1394-02 to R. DiLillo &
Company — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (BOC Res. 790-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682
Clark Commons site improvements — contract per Ord. 1017-02 and 1947-02
to Royal Landscape — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 789-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment parts and labor — contract per Ord. 915-02
to Gibson-Stewart Company — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(BOC Res. 783-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2681
Front-end loaders and roll-off containers — contract per Ord. 1424-02 to Refuse Equipment
and Truck Service, Inc. — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
(BOC Res. 786-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682
Lubricants — contract per Ord. 908-02 to Frank Blackmon — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (BOC Res. 785-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682
Lubricants, windshield washer solvent — contract per Ord. 908-02 to Rice Oil
Company, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(BOC Res. 784-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2681
Surveying services, capital improvement projects — contract per Ord. 920-02 to Garrett
& Associates, Inc. (BOC Res. 782-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2681
Tires, new — contract per Ord. 917-02 to Tire Distributors, Inc. — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 788-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Combination sewer and catch basin cleaners — per Ord. 1084-02 — all bids rejected —
Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 773-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Diesel fuel — contract per Ord. 528-02 to Universal Oil, Inc. — Division
of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 774-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
High voltage cable — amend BOC Res. 742-02 — Division of Cleveland Public Power
(BOC Res. 772-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Literacy training — contract per Ord. 1077-02 to Cleveland Municipal School District Division of Water (BOC Res. 771-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Pump station, repair and maintain — contract per Ord. 346-02 to Craun-Liebing Company Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 775-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Software system administration, support and training — contract per Ord. 1077-02 to
Mincom, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 770-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Technology training services — contract per Ord. 1077-02 to Cuyahoga Community College —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 769-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Cab / chassis with flat bed / sanitation equipment — contract per Ord. 1262-02 to
Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. — Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 787-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682
Diesel fuel — contract per Ord. 528-02 to Universal Oil, Inc. — Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 774-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Dishwasher — contract per Ord. 1203-2000 to S.S. Kemp Co. — Division of Correction, Dept.
of Public Health (BOC Res. 791-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2683
Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment parts and labor — contract per Ord. 915-02
to Gibson-Stewart Company — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 783-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2681
High voltage cable — amend BOC Res. 742-02 — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 772-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Lubricants — contract per Ord. 908-02 to Frank Blackmon — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 785-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682

2692

December 11, 2002

The City Record

83

Lubricants, windshield washer solvent — contract per Ord. 908-02 to Rice Oil
Company, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 784-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2681
Office supplies — contract per Ord. 1069-02 to Boise Cascade Office Products, Inc. —
Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 768-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678
Pump station, repair and maintain — contract per Ord. 346-02 to Craun-Liebing Company Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 775-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Tires, new — contract per Ord. 917-02 to Tire Distributors, Inc. — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 788-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682
Uniforms, work — contract per Ord. 591-02 to Aramark Uniform Services, a division
of Aramark Uniform & Career Apparel, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 781-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2681
Uniforms, work — contract per Ord. 591-02 to BP Britches, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 779-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2680
Uniforms, work — contract per Ord. 591-02 to Stonewall Uniform Corporation — Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 780-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2681
Board of Control — Research, Planning and Development Division
Barkwill Park site improvements — contract per Ord. 1013-02 and 1394-02 to R. DiLillo &
Company — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (BOC Res. 790-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682
Clark Commons site improvements — contract per Ord. 1017-02 and 1947-02
to Royal Landscape — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 789-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Front-end loaders and roll-off containers — contract per Ord. 1424-02 to Refuse Equipment
and Truck Service, Inc. — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 786-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682
Hazeldell School demolition — contract per Ord. 1007-A-98 to C & J Contractors, Inc. Division of Building and Housing, Dept. of Community Development
(BOC Res. 797-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2684
Board of Control — Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Front-end loaders and roll-off containers — contract per Ord. 1424-02 to Refuse
Equipment and Truck Service, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 786-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2682
Board of Control — Water Division
Literacy training — contract per Ord. 1077-02 to Cleveland Municipal School District —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 771-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Software system administration, support and training — contract per Ord. 1077-02 to
Mincom, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 770-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Technology training services — contract per Ord. 1077-02 to Cuyahoga Community College —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 769-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Combination sewer and catch basin cleaners — per Ord. 1084-02 — all bids rejected — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 773-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679
Pump station, repair and maintain — contract per Ord. 346-02 to Craun-Liebing Company —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 775-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2679

Board of County Commissioners
Cargill Deicing Technology — Copy of Resolution — dispute with Teamsters Local 436
(F 2416-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Brighton Avenue, 12706, (Ward 19) – Clement Andera, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
12/9/02 (Cal. 02-332) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
Chatham Avenue, 2712, (Ward 14) – R. Scott Neiswander, owner appeal postponed to 01/13/02
on 12/9/02 (Cal. 02-195) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685

2693

The City Record

84

December 11, 2002

East 127th Street, 2617, (Ward 6) – Melinda Steele, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 12/9/02 (Cal. 02-325) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
East 156th Street, 317, (Ward 11) – Northeast Shores Development Corporation, owners c/o
Kurt Weaver, agent — appeal granted and adopted on 12/9/02
(Cal. 02-330) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
East 93rd Street, 3111, (Ward 4) – Jamal Hanini, owner, and Nanja Sundram, agent — appeal
withdrawn on 12/9/02 (Cal. 02-285). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
Fairville Avenue, 18114, (Ward 20) – Pamela Salmon, owner — appeal heard on 12/9/02
(Cal. 02-340) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
Lakeshore Boulevard, 15116, (Ward 11) – Abundant Faith Apostolic Church, owner c/o
Douglas Revels, pastor — appeal heard on 12/9/02
(Cal. 02-333) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
Lorain Avenue, 12222, (Ward 19) – Edward M. Krivec, owner, and Donald Folmer, tenant appeal postponed to 02/03/03 on 12/9/02 (Cal. 02-223). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
Lorain Avenue, 5011, (Ward 14) – Best & Associates, owners c/o Mary Lou Best
- appeal heard on 12/9/02 (Cal. 02-341) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
Oakland Avenue, 12000, (Ward 9) – Ike and Hattie Oliver, owners — appeal heard on 12/9/02
(Cal. 02-334) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
St. Clair Avenue, 8837, (Ward 8) – Church of Christ Sowinski Incorporated, owner c/o
Donald Nelson, agent — appeal granted and adopted on 12/9/02
(Cal. 02-320) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
Sylvia Avenue, 14930, (Ward 10) – Kenneth Riley, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 12/9/02 (Cal. 02-327) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
West 28th Street, 2097, (Ward 14) – R. Scott Neiswander, owner — appeal postponed
to 01/13/02 on 12/9/02 (Cal. 02-194) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
West 48th Street, 1452, (Ward 17) – Moneef Ammari, owner — appeal heard on 12/9/02
(Cal. 02-338) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Beaver Avenue, 6830, (Ward 5) – Joseph Cooper, owner — appeal to be heard on
12/23/02 (Cal. 02-351) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2684
Broadway Avenue, 7512, (Ward 12) – Chester Partika, owner — appeal to be heard on
12/23/02 (Cal. 02-355) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
Delrey Avenue, 16327 , (Ward 1) – Camille Wilson, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/23/02
(Cal. 02-352) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
Sedalia Avenue, 17909, (Ward 21) – Frank Bemak, owner — appeal to be heard on 12/23/02
(Cal. 02-354) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
West 105th Street, 1977, (Ward 19) – West Cleveland Management, owner c/o Edward Hardin
- appeal to be heard on 12/23/02 (Cal. 02-356) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685
West 136th Street, 3895, (Ward 20) – Michael A. Sopko, owner — appeal to be heard
on 12/23/02 (Cal. 02-357) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2685

Bonds
Parking facilities — revenue bonds — refund — sales (O 2370-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2618

Budget
Temporary appropriation — 2003 (O 2394-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2662

Burke Lakefront Airport
Emergency spill response, evaluation, handling, and disposal — professional consultants
— Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 2379-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2625
Marketing and advertising services, materials — professional services contracts
— Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke Lakefront Airports
(O 2383-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2626
Operational and structural maintenance — purchase — new Section 571.89 — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport & Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 980-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678-T

Case Western Reserve University
CWRU Magazine, Fall 2002 issue (F 2417-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613

2694

December 11, 2002

The City Record

85

City Council
Holiday Party — payment to National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
(O 2413-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2670

City of Cleveland Bids
Airfield improvements at CHIA and Burke (RFQ ) — Department of Port Control — due
January 3, 2003 (advertised 12/11/2002 and 12/18/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688
Aviation insurance — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per Ord. 2172-02 —
bid due December 18, 2002 (advertised 12/4/2002 and 12/11/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688
Bunker gear suits — Department of Port Control — per Ord. 1093-02 — bid due December 19, 2002
(advertised 12/4/2002 and 12/11/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688
Computer related hardware equipment — Department of Finance — per Ord. 1936-02 — bid due
January 8, 2003 (advertised 12/11/2002 and 12/18/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688
Electric motors and pumps — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties — Division of
Property Management — per Ord. 539-02 — bid due January 9, 2003
(advertised 12/11/2002 and 12/18/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688
Glock pistols, 9MM — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per Ord. 646-92 —
bid due January 9, 2003 (advertised 12/11/2002 and 12/18/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688
Jacobsen mower parts — Department of Finance — per Ord. 2330-02 — bid due December 19, 2002
(advertised 12/4/2002 and 12/11/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688
Medical supplies — Department of Public Safety — Division of Emergency
Medical Service — per Ord. 2164-01 — bid due December 20, 2002
(advertised 12/4/2002 and 12/11/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688
Pumps, Peerless — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties — Division of Convention
Center and Stadium — per Ord. 1981-02 — bid due December 20, 2002
(advertised 12/4/2002 and 12/11/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688
Security systems — Department of Finance — behalf of Cleveland
Municipal Court — per Ord. 2142-01 — bid due December 20, 2002
(advertised 12/4/2002 and 12/11/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688
Sewer and catch basin cleaner repair — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water
Pollution Control — per Ord. 1084-02 — bid due January 8, 2003
(advertised 12/11/2002 and 12/18/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688
Shot guns — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per Ord. 646-92 — bid due
January 9, 2003 (advertised 12/11/2002 and 12/18/2002). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688
Tree trimming around wires and lights — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 1079-02 — bid due January 8, 2003
(advertised 12/11/2002 and 12/18/2002) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2688

City Planning Commission
Ashland Rd., Longfellow Ave. & Thackery Ave. — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
District (O 2390-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2668
Franklin Ave., 8205 — change zoning (O 2119-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
Lake Shore Blvd & — Marcella Rd. (N.E. corner) — change the zoning — General Retail
Business District (O 2392-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2669
Lee-Harvard Business Revitalization District — expand (O 2391-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2669
Little Italy Neighborhood Master Plan — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 2398-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2669
W. 11th St.(east), Fairfield Ave. (south) — zoning change (Ward 13)
(O 2069-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687

Cleveland Foundation
Are You OK? Program. — grant (O 2319-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Benefits Checkup Program — grant — Aging Department (O 2314-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Concourse C ramp — public improvement (O 2374-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2624
Double wall tank — purchase (O 2382-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2626
Electrical vaults, feeders and substations — design — enhancements — professional
consultants (O 1096-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678-T
Emergency spill response, evaluation, handling, and disposal — professional consultants
— Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 2379-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2625

2695

The City Record

86

December 11, 2002

Long-term parking garage — public improvement (O 2375-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2624
Marketing and advertising services, materials — professional services contracts
— Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke Lakefront Airports
(O 2383-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2626
Operational and structural maintenance — purchase — new Section 571.89 — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport & Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 980-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678-T
Parsons Infrastructure and Technology, Inc. — amend Contract No. 53694 — expansion
(O 2378-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2625
Cleveland Housing Network
Lead-evaluation services — amend Contract No. 57953 (O 2315-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677

Codified Ordinances
Downtown area parking — amend Sects. 403.04 and 453.02 (O 2396-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2668
Fees and charges — amend various sections (O 2393-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2629
Operational and structural maintenance — purchase — new Section 571.89 — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport & Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 980-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678-T
Communications
Beachwood, City of — Copy of Res. No. 2002-163 — Support of the Federal Mental Health
Insurance Parity Bill (F 2414-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
County Commissioners, Board of — Copy of Resolution — Cargill Deicing Technology —
dispute with Teamsters Local 436 (F 2416-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
CWRU Magazine, Fall 2002 issue (F 2417-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
Federal Law Enforcement Trust Fund on RW 121276 — October 18, 2002 — Public Safety
(F 2421-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
Health Museum of Cleveland — Fall 2002 Quarterly Publication — HealthWise
(F 2415-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
Roller Bearings for Emergency Repairs to Willow Lift Bridge — Phase II — Mayor’s
Emergency Requisition/Purchase Order (F 2418-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
Western Reserve Area Agency — Grant — Department of Aging
(F 2422-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
Community Development
E. 99th St., 627 & E. 102nd St., 630 — Land Reutilization Program — Glenville
Development Corporation (O 2388-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2628
Federal Law Enforcement Trust Fund on RW 121878 — November 5, 2002 — Public Safety
(F 2420-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
Marvin Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Civic Builders, LLC. (O 2244-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Miles Ave., 14207 — Land Reutilization Program — Ira H. Hansen and Mary R. Hansen
(O 2389-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2628
Spanish American Committee — Three Kings Day Program — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity
Funds — amend Ord No. 86-02 (O 2399-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2670
Cuyahoga County
Holiday Party — payment of National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
(O 2413-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2670
Condolences
Gregory, Everett H. (R 2440-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Gulas, Reverend William (R 2437-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Hawkins, Norma Jean (R 2441-02) . . .
Jackson, John (R 2439-02) . . . . . . . . . .
Lambros, Arthur P. (R 2438-02) . . . . .
McMullian, Mrs. Mildred (R 2442-02) .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

2614
2614
2614
2614

Congratulations
Brandon, Lonnie & Marjorie (R 2444-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Council of Smaller Enterprises (COSE) (R 2443-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Tatnall, Sally B. (R 2445-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

2696

December 11, 2002

The City Record

87

Contracts
Cenergy Sports & Entertainment, LLC — corporate sponsorships
(O 2385-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2627
Emerald Research Park, Ltd — amendment to Contract No. 50034 — Economic Development
(O 2387-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2627
Lead-evaluation services — amend Contract No. 57953 — Cleveland Housing Network
(O 2315-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Parsons Infrastructure and Technology, Inc. — amend Contract No. 53694 — expansion
of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 2378-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2625
Recovery Resources — Employee Assistance Program — extension of Contract No. 58622
(O 2386-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2627
Urban Development Action Grant loan — amend City Contract No. 47265 — Playhouse Square
Hotel Limited Partnership (O 1548-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2674

Cudell Improvement
Madison Ave., 10505 — economic development assistance (O 2252-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676

Cuyahoga County
Colored People — National Association for the Advancement of Colored People — Holiday
Party (O 2413-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2670

Cuyahoga County Mental Health Board
Psychiatric services — Houses of Corrections’ inmates (O 2317-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Downtown area parking — amend Sects. 403.04 and 453.02 (O 2396-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2668

Downtown

Economic Development Department
Cudell Improvement, Inc. — economic development assistance — 10505 Madison Ave.
(O 2252-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund — amend Ord. 1282-02
(O 2067-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2674
E & L Properties, Ltd. — construction and renovation — 9103 Buckeye Rd — amend Sect.
2 of Ord. No. 1884-98 (O 543-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678-T
Emerald Research Park, Ltd — amendment to Contract No. 50034
(O 2387-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2627
Lower Euclid Avenue Commercial and Residential District redevelopment project — tax
increment financing (O 2247-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2674-2678
MidTown Technology Partners, LLC — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan & Economic
Development Initiative Grant Agreement — E. 57th St. & E. 61st St.
(O 2181-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
MidTown Technology Partners, LLC — Enterprise Zone Agreement — E. 57th St. & E. 61st
St. (O 2182-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Urban Development Action Grant loan — amend City Contract No. 47265 — Playhouse Square
Hotel Limited Partnership (O 1548-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2674

Emergency Purchases
Pesticide Spraying — Department of Public Health (F 2419-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
Roller Bearings for Emergency Repairs to Willow Lift Bridge — Phase II
(F 2418-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613

Empowerment Zone
MidTown Technology Partners, LLC — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan & Economic
Development Initiative Grant Agreement — E. 57th St. & E. 61st St.
(O 2181-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675

2697

The City Record

88

December 11, 2002

Enterprise Zone Agreement
MidTown Technology Partners, LLC — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan & Economic
Development Initiative Grant Agreement — E. 57th St. & E. 61st St.
(O 2181-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
MidTown Technology Partners, LLC — E. 57th St. & E. 61st St.
(O 2182-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675

Fees
Fees and charges — amend various sections of the Codified Ordinance
(O 2393-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2629

Finance Department
Citywide telephone, telecommunications network and wireless assessment — Director of
Finance (O 2152-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2674
Cleveland Stadium — lease purchase agreement — supplement
(O 2369-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Commercial gases — requirement contracts — various divisions
(O 2307-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Data Flex licenses upgrade, permits, taxes and assessments — agreements — Data Access
Corp. (O 2304-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
EMS ambulance transports — electronically invoice — agreements — Pinpoint
Technologies, Inc. (O 2305-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Fees and charges — amend various sections of the Codified Ordinance
(O 2393-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2629
Jacobsen mower parts — requirement contracts — various divisions
(O 2330-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678
Overhead doors, — requirement contracts — various divisions
(O 2308-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Temporary appropriation — 2003 (O 2394-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2662
Window washing services — requirement contracts — various divisions
(O 2306-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676

Funds
Black mold — analysis — grant funds — USEPA (O 2324-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678
Greater Cleveland YMCA — funds provided by the City of Cleveland — urging
investigation (R 2400-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2670

Glenville Development Corporation
E. 99th St., 627 & E. 102nd St., 630 — Land Reutilization Program
(O 2388-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2628

Grants
Are You OK? Program. — Cleveland Foundation
(O 2319-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Benefits Checkup Program — Cleveland Foundation — Aging Department
(O 2314-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Black mold — analysis — grant funds — USEPA
(O 2324-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678
Cardiovascular Disease Program — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 2318-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Immunization Action Plan Program — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 2322-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Senior Assist Program — Manor Care Foundation
(O 2313-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Solid Waste Disposal Program 2003 — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District
(O 2320-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
STD Control Program — Ohio Department of Health
(O 2321-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677

2698

December 11, 2002

The City Record

89

Health Department
Black mold — analysis — grant funds — USEPA
(O 2324-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678
Cardiovascular Disease Program — grant — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 2318-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Cuyahoga County Mental Health Board — psychiatric services — Houses of Corrections’
inmates (O 2317-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Immunization Action Plan Program — grant — Cuyahoga County Board of Health
(O 2322-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
J. Glenn Smith Health Center — structured wiring system — install
(O 2316-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Lead-evaluation services — amend Contract No. 57953 — Cleveland Housing Network
(O 2315-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Mural Building — 1925 St. Clair Ave. — lease space
(O 2325-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678
Pesticide Spraying — Mayor’s Emergency Requisition/Purchase Order
(F 2419-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
Solid Waste Disposal Program 2003 — grant — Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District
(O 2320-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
STD Control Program — grant — Ohio Department of Health
(O 2321-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
STD/HIV Community Awareness Project — marketing services — Adcom Communications, Inc.
(O 2323-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677

Health Museum
Fall 2002 Quarterly Publication — HealthWise (F 2415-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613

House of Corrections
Cuyahoga County Mental Health Board — psychiatric services — Houses of Corrections’
inmates (O 2317-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677

J. Glen Health Center
Structured wiring system — install (O 2316-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677

Land Reutilization Program
E. 99th St., 627 & E. 102nd St., 630 — Glenville Development Corporation
(O 2388-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2628
Marvin Ave. — Civic Builders, LLC. (O 2244-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Miles Ave., 14207 — Ira H. Hansen and Mary R. Hansen (O 2389-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2628

Liquor Permits
Broadview Rd., 2071 — objection withdraw (Ward 15) (R 2407-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2672
Buckeye Rd., 13108 — transfer (Ward 4) (F 2425-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Cooley Ave., 12417 — objection (Ward 19) (R 2402-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2671
E. 105th St., 965 — new (Ward 8) (F 2423-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
E. 125th St., 780-86 — transfer (Ward 9) (F 2428-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
E. 185th St., 1013 — transfer (Ward 11) (F 2424-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
E. 185th St., 747 — objection withdraw (Ward 11) (R 2409-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2673
E. 185th St.,1013 — objection (Ward 11) (R 2408-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2673
E. 93rd St., 4055 — objection withdraw (Ward 2) (R 2412-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2674
Lorain Ave., 14053 — objection withdraw (Ward 21) (R 2406-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2672
Miles Ave., 11401 — objection (Ward 2) (R 2411-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2673
Munn Rd., 15520 — objection (Ward 21) (R 2405-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2672
Murray Hill Rd., 2181 — objection withdraw (Ward 6) (R 2403-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2671
St. Clair Ave., 4017 — objection (Ward 13) (R 2404-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2671
St. Clair Ave., 4017 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 2427-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
W. 130th St., 4589 — objection withdraw (Ward 20) (R 2410-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2673
W. 73rd St., 3153 — transfer (Ward 17) (F 2429-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Western Ave., 11121 — transfer (Ward 19) (F 2426-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

2699

The City Record

90

December 11, 2002

Little Italy
Little Italy Neighborhood Master Plan — City Planning Commission — Ward 6 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 2398-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2669

Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division (MVM)
Anti-freeze — purchase (O 2231-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Automobile and truck spring parts — purchase (O 2229-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Automotive paint — purchase (O 2169-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Automotive, truck, and equipment glass — repair or replace
(O 2230-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Barber Greene road paver and Caterpillar construction equipment parts — purchase
(O 2164-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Blaw Knox Paver and Galion-Dresser-Komatsu construction equipment parts — purchase —
Columbus Equipment Co. (O 2163-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Case and Grad-All construction equipment parts — purchase — Southeastern Equipment
Co., Inc. (O 2165-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Crane Carrier cab and chassis parts — purchase — Brom Truck, Inc.
(O 2162-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2674
Chevrolet-GMC vehicle parts — purchase (O 2233-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
E.Z. Pack packer parts — purchase — R&R Mack Sales, Inc.
(O 2234-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Elgin Street sweeper parts — purchase — Jack Doheny Supplies Ohio, Inc.
(O 2235-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Fuel dispensing pumps — fuel operations, fuel tankers, hydraulic lifts, oil and great
dispensing equipment, stationary air compressors and for emergency cleanup —
leaking underground storage tanks (O 2236-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Hydraulic cylinders, pumps, motors, valves, fuel injectors, drive shafts, gear boxes
and trailers — repair (O 2168-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Police motorcycles — repair (O 2167-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Radiators, heater cores, gas tanks, and air conditioning units — repair, clean, recore
or replace (O 2166-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Recapping — purchase (O 2170-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Salt spreader, insert, and plow parts — purchase (O 2228-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Vehicle frames & vehicle alignments — repair (O 2232-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Little Italy Neighborhood Master Plan — City Planning Commission — Ward 6
(O 2398-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2669
Spanish American Committee — Three Kings Day Program — Ward 14 — amend Ord No. 86-02
(O 2399-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2670

Ohio Department of Public Health
STD Control Program — grant (O 2321-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
511 traveler information system — supporting creation (R 2397-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2669

Parking
Downtown area parking — amend Sects. 403.04 and 453.02 (O 2396-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2668

Parks
Maplewood Park — constructing — Midvale Ave., 17810 — appropriate property
(O 2384-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2627

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Cenergy Sports & Entertainment, LLC — contracts — corporate sponsorships
(O 2385-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2627
Cudell Fine Arts Building Exterior Painting — Contract No. 59441 (F 2430-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Halloran Skating Rink Additional Netting — Contract No. 59697 (F 2431-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Halloran Skating Rink Rubber Flooring — Contract No. 59726 (F 2432-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

2700

December 11, 2002

The City Record

91

League Park Renovations (Phase 1) — Contract No. 58866 (F 2433-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Mercedes Cotner Park Site Improvements — Contract PI #57865A (F 2434-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Midvale Ave., 17810 — appropriate property — constructing Maplewood Park
(O 2384-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2627
Personnel Department
Recovery Resources — Employee Assistance Program — extension of Contract No. 58622
(O 2386-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2627
Port Control Department
Annual reports 2002 & 2003 — professional consultants (O 2381-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2626
Asphalt, concrete and tack coat — purchase (O 2377-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2625
Concourse C ramp — public improvement (O 2374-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2624
Double wall tank — purchase — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 2382-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2626
Electrical vaults, feeders and substations — design — enhancements — professional
consultants (O 1096-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678-T
Emergency spill response, evaluation, handling, and disposal — professional consultants
— Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 2379-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2625
Long-term parking garage — public improvement — Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport (O 2375-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2624
Marketing and advertising services, materials — professional services contracts
— Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke Lakefront Airports
(O 2383-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2626
Operational and structural maintenance — purchase — new Section 571.89 — Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport & Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 980-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678-T
Parsons Infrastructure and Technology, Inc. — amend Contract No. 53694 — expansion
of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 2378-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2625
Planning studies — professional consultants (O 2380-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2626
Taxiway, ramp and runway improvements — public improvement — various divisions
(O 2376-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2625
Public Hearings (Notices)
Franklin Ave., 8205 — change zoning (O 2119-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
W. 11th St.(east), Fairfield Ave. (south) — zoning change (Ward 13)
(O 2069-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
Purchases and Supplies Division
Pesticide Spraying — Mayor’s Emergency Requisition/Purchase Order — Department
of Public Health (F 2419-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613

Recognition
Doss, Mark S. (R 2446-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Resolutions — Miscellaneous
511 traveler information system — supporting creation
(R 2397-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2669
FOX 8 News — broadcasting the name of a rape and assault victim — condemn
(R 2401-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2670
Greater Cleveland YMCA — funds provided by the City of Cleveland — urging
investigation (R 2400-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2670
Reverse 911 system — use — urging the Mayor and Director of Safety — initiate a pilot
program (R 1735-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678-T
Safety Department
Federal Law Enforcement Trust Fund on RW 121276 — October 18, 2002 (F 2421-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
Federal Law Enforcement Trust Fund on RW 121878 — November 5, 2002
(F 2420-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
Reverse 911 system — use — urging the Mayor and Director of Safety — initiate a pilot
program (R 1735-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678-T

2701

The City Record

92

December 11, 2002

Service Department
Anti-freeze — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2231-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Automobile and truck spring parts — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2229-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Automotive paint — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2169-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Automotive, truck, and equipment glass — repair or replace — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 2230-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Barber Greene road paver and Caterpillar construction equipment parts — purchase —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 2164-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Blaw Knox Paver and Galion-Dresser-Komatsu construction equipment parts — purchase —
Columbus Equipment Co. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2163-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Brooklyn, City of — agreement — three traffic control devices and pavement markings
— Ridge Road/I-480 to Brookpark Road area (O 2312-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2677
Case and Grad-All construction equipment parts — purchase — Southeastern Equipment
Co., Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2165-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Chevrolet-GMC vehicle parts — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2233-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Crane Carrier cab and chassis parts — purchase — Brom Truck, Inc.
(O 2162-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2674
E.Z. Pack packer parts — purchase — R&R Mack Sales, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 2234-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Elgin Street sweeper parts — purchase — Jack Doheny Supplies Ohio, Inc. — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 2235-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Fuel dispensing pumps — fuel operations, fuel tankers, hydraulic lifts, oil and great
dispensing equipment, stationary air compressors and for emergency cleanup —
leaking underground storage tanks — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2236-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Hydraulic cylinders, pumps, motors, valves, fuel injectors, drive shafts, gear boxes
and trailers — repair — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2168-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Police motorcycles — repair — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2167-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Radiators, heater cores, gas tanks, and air conditioning units — repair, clean, recore
or replace — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2166-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Recapping — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2170-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Roller Bearings for Emergency Repairs to Willow Lift Bridge — Phase II — Mayor’s
Emergency Requisition/Purchase Order (F 2418-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
Salt spreader, insert, and plow parts — purchase — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 2228-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
Vehicle frames & vehicle alignments — repair — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 2232-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676

Spanish American Committee
Three Kings Day Program — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds — amend Ord No. 86-02
(O 2399-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2670

Stadium
Lease purchase agreement — supplement (O 2369-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

Statement of Work Acceptance
Cudell Fine Arts Building Exterior Painting — Contract No. 59441 — Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (F 2430-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Delta Plumbing dba Fox Construction — Contract No. 59428 A — Department of Public
Utilities (F 2435-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Halloran Skating Rink Additional Netting — Contract No. 59697 — Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (F 2431-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Halloran Skating Rink Rubber Flooring — Contract No. 59726 — Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (F 2432-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

2702

December 11, 2002

The City Record

93

League Park Renovations (Phase 1) — Contract No. 58866 — Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (F 2433-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Mercedes Cotner Park Site Improvements — Contract PI #57865A — Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (F 2434-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Utilicon Corp. — Contract No. 59155 A — Department of Public Utilities
(F 2436-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

Streets — Name
E. 130th St. — between Drexmore and Buckeye Rds. — change name to Westmore Drive
(O 2395-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2668

Utilities Department
Annual reports 2002 & 2003 — customer public information — promotional materials —
professional consultants (O 2372-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2624
Consumer confidence reports 2002 & 2003 — professional consultants
(O 2373-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2624
Delta Plumbing dba Fox Construction — Contract No. 59428 A
(F 2435-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Mortar lining — cleaning and cement — various distribution water mains — 2003
(O 2371-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2623
Utilicon Corp. — Contract No. 59155 A (F 2436-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

Ward 01
Gregory, Everett H. — condolence (R 2440-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Jackson, John — condolence (R 2439-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Lee-Harvard Business Revitalization District — expand (O 2391-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2669
Miles Ave., 14207 — Land Reutilization Program — Ira H. Hansen and Mary R. Hansen
(O 2389-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2628

Ward 02
E. 93rd St., 4055 — objection withdraw (R 2412-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2674
McMullian, Mrs. Mildred — condolence (R 2442-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Miles Ave., 11401 — objection (R 2411-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2673

Ward 04
Brandon, Lonnie & Marjorie — congratulation (R 2444-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Buckeye Rd., 13108 — transfer (F 2425-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
E & L Properties, Ltd. — construction and renovation — 9103 Buckeye Rd — amend Sect.
2 of Ord. No. 1884-98 (O 543-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678-T

Ward 05
Ashland Rd., Longfellow Ave. & Thackery Ave. — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
District (O 2390-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2668
Council of Smaller Enterprises (COSE) — congratulation (R 2443-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Doss, Mark S. — recognition (R 2446-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
MidTown Technology Partners, LLC — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan & Economic
Development Initiative Grant Agreement — E. 57th St. & E. 61st St.
(O 2181-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675
MidTown Technology Partners, LLC — Enterprise Zone Agreement — E. 57th St. & E. 61st
St. (O 2182-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2675

Ward 06
E. 130th St. — between Drexmore and Buckeye Rds. — change name to Westmore Drive
(O 2395-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2668
Little Italy Neighborhood Master Plan — City Planning Commission — Ward 6 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 2398-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2669
Murray Hill Rd., 2181 — objection withdraw (R 2403-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2671

2703

The City Record

94

December 11, 2002

Ward 08
E. 105th St., 965 — new (F 2423-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2613
E. 99th St., 627 & E. 102nd St., 630 — Land Reutilization Program — Glenville
Development Corporation (O 2388-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2628

Ward 09
E. 125th St., 780-86 — transfer (F 2428-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

Ward 10
Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund — amend Ord. 1282-02
(O 2067-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2674
Hawkins, Norma Jean — condolence (R 2441-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

Ward 11
E. 185th St., 1013 — transfer (F 2424-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
E. 185th St., 747 — objection withdraw (R 2409-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2673
E. 185th St.,1013 — objection (R 2408-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2673
Lake Shore Blvd & — Marcella Rd. (N.E. corner) — change the zoning — General Retail
Business District (O 2392-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2669

Ward 12
Gulas, Reverend William — condolence (R 2437-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

Ward 13
Lambros, Arthur P. — condolence (R 2438-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Lower Euclid Avenue Commercial and Residential District redevelopment project — tax
increment financing (O 2247-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2674-2678
Mural Building — 1925 St. Clair Ave. — lease space — Department of Public Health
(O 2325-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2678
St. Clair Ave., 4017 — objection (R 2404-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2671
St. Clair Ave., 4017 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 2427-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614
Urban Development Action Grant loan — amend City Contract No. 47265 — Playhouse Square
Hotel Limited Partnership (O 1548-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2674
W. 11th St.(east), Fairfield Ave. (south) — zoning change (Ward 13)
(O 2069-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687

Ward 14
Marvin Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Civic Builders, LLC.
(O 2244-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Spanish American Committee — Three Kings Day Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds —
amend Ord No. 86-02 (O 2399-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2670

Ward 15
Broadview Rd., 2071 — objection withdraw (R 2407-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2672

Ward 17
Franklin Ave., 8205 — change zoning (O 2119-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
W. 73rd St., 3153 — transfer (F 2429-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

Ward 18
Cudell Improvement, Inc. — economic development assistance — 10505 Madison Ave.
(O 2252-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2676
Tatnall, Sally B. — congratulation (R 2445-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

2704

December 11, 2002

The City Record

95

Ward 19
Cooley Ave., 12417 — objection (R 2402-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2671
Western Ave., 11121 — transfer (F 2426-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2614

Ward 20
Midvale Ave., 17810 — appropriate property — constructing Maplewood Park
(O 2384-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2627
W. 130th St., 4589 — objection withdraw (R 2410-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2673

Ward 21
Lorain Ave., 14053 — objection withdraw (R 2406-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2672
Munn Rd., 15520 — objection (R 2405-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2672

YMCA — Central Branch
Greater Cleveland YMCA — funds provided by the City of Cleveland — urging
investigation (R 2400-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2670

Zoning
Ashland Rd., Longfellow Ave. & Thackery Ave. — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
District (O 2390-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2668
Franklin Ave., 8205 — change zoning (O 2119-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687
Lake Shore Blvd & — Marcella Rd. (N.E. corner) — change the zoning — General Retail
Business District (O 2392-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2669
Lee-Harvard Business Revitalization District — expand (O 2391-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2669
W. 11th St.(east), Fairfield Ave. (south) — zoning change (Ward 13)
(O 2069-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2687

2705

