The City Record
O fficial Publication of the Council of the City of Cleve l a n d

January the Fifteenth, Two Thousand and Three

Jane L. Campbell
Mayor

Frank G. Jackson
President of Council

Valarie J. McCall
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
11
11
14
14
15
15
15
15
19
22
22

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Frank G. Jackson
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed ..........................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell...........................................774 East 131st Street
Roosevelt Coats .........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr........................................4326 Daisy Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
Matthew Zone ..........................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ......................................1278 West 103rd Street
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44108
44112
44119
44105
44113
44109
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Rodney Jenkins, Executive Assistant
David M. McGuirk, Executive Assistant
Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant
Craig Tame, Executive Assistant
Henry Guzman, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officer
DEPT. OF LAW – Subodh Chandra, Director, Galen L. Schuerlein, Acting
Chief Counsel, Room 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Cleo Henderson, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael G. Konicek, Director,
1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John C. Mok, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie
Avenue.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll, Acting Director, Mural
Building, 1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS: Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland
House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
Environment – Willie Bess, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Health – Dr. Wendy Johnson, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – James A. Draper, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police \ Edward F. Lohn, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES –James Glending,
Acting Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.

Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director, 3rd
Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Sharon Dumas, Commissioner.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES –Eduardo A. Romero,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Steven Sims, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Lorna Wisham, Director;
Mayor Jane L. Campbell, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President;
Rev. Earl Preston, Vic e President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Secretary;
Members: Diane M. Downing, Matthew Dotson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Betsy Hruby,
Asst. Sec’y.; Robert H. Baker, Director; Council President Frank G.
Jackson.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;
Members; Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver-Washington,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room
516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate
Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Subodh Chandra,
Pre sident; Finance Director Robert H. Baker, Secretary; Council
President Frank G. Jackson.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law
Director Subodh Chandra; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Subodh
Chandra; Utilities Director Michael G. Konicek; Council President Frank
G. Jackson.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Christopher S. Ronayne,
Director; Anthony J. Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Chairman;
Finance Director Robert H. Baker; Council President Frank G. Jackson;
Councilman Dona Brady; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman;
Earl S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule,
Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLE VE LAND LA ND MARKS CO MMISS ION – R oo m 51 9 – Ric hard
Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush,
James Gibans, Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen
Schuerlein, Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Dwayne J.
Simpson, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Emanuella Groves
12B
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan–Court Administrator,
Paul J. Mizerak–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Gregory F. Clifford–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 15, 2003

Vol. 90

No. 4649

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2003
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

COMMUNICATIONS

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation
Committee:
Westbrook,
Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman;
Britt, Dolan, Gordon, Reed, Rybka.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

File No. 48-03.
From the National City Community Development Corporation — 20th
Anniversary News Letter. Received.

VALARIE J. McCALL
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, O’Malley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Scott, Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00
vices
Zone,
well,

P.M. — Health & Human SerCommittee: Britt, Chairman;
Vice Chairman; Cintron, ConGordon, Scott, Polensek.

1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Scott, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cintron, Jones,
Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka,
Vice
Chairman,
Conwell,
Lewis,
O’Malley, Scott, Westbrook.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman; O’Malley, Reed, Sweeney.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________

Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 13, 2003.
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats,
Conwell, Dolan, Gordon, Jackson,
Johnson, Jones, Lewis, O’Malley,
Polensek, Reed, Rybka, Scott, Sweeney, Westbrook, White and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Campbell and Directors Chandra, Baker,
Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Draper,
Hudecek,
Romero,
Sims,
Taylor,
Wisham, Guzman, Ronayne, Acting
Directors Carroll, Glending; Executive Assistants Jenkins, McGuirk,
Tame, Mueller, Celeste Glascow,
Director of Communications; Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison; Jeffrey D. Johnson,
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officers, Paula Morrison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the Council Meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Pastor
Grady L. Stevenson, Jr. of Damascus
Road Ministries, located in Ward 2.
Pledge of Allegiance.

File No. 49-03.
From
Congressman
Dennis
J.
Kucinich — Receipt letter of Resolution No. 191-02. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 50-03.
Re: New Application — 8331826 —
Gregory A. Sniezek, 1503 Spring Road,
first floor. (Ward 15). Received.
File No. 51-03.
Re: New Application — 86165290005
— Stop-N-Save, Inc., d.b.a. Mimi Mini
Market, 13501 Lakewood Heights
Boulevard, first floor n/s only.
(Ward 19). Received.
File No. 52-03.
Re: New Application — 7094927 —
Progroc, Inc., d.b.a. Our Neighborhood Store, 17234 Euclid Avenue,
first floor and basement. (Ward 10).
Received.
File No. 53-03.
Re: New Application — 1159396 —
Carl W. Byers, d.b.a. Mikia’s Deli,
965 East 105th Street. (Ward 8). Received.
File No. 54-03.
Re: New Application — 1162873 —
JoAnn M. Byrge, d.b.a. Beverage
Store, 4409 Payne Avenue. (Ward
13). Received.
File No. 55-03.
Re: New Application — 9011463 —
Tower City Lottery Stop, d.b.a. Lottery Stop, 230 W. Huron #72-76.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 56-03.
Re: New Application — 1547275 —
Cleveland Lorain CVS, Inc., d.b.a.
CVS/Pharmacy #2503, 13027 Lorain
Avenue. (Ward 20). Received.
File No. 57-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 9053037 — Triple A Gas &
Oil Corp., d.b.a. W. 130th Marathon,
4611 West 130th Street. (Ward 20).
Received.

MOTION

File No. 58-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 3453183 — Guru Kirpa, Inc.,
d.b.a. Convenient Food Mart, 3753
Pearl Road. (Ward 15). Received.

On the motion of Council Member
Rybka the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Britt.

File No. 59-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 3504707 — Issam Hajj F &
H Market, 3291 East 49th Street.
(Ward 5). Received.

31

The City Record

4
File No. 60-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 8200013 — 662 East 140th
Street, Inc., Four M. Food Market,
662 East 140th Street, first floor and
basement. (Ward 10). Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 61-03.
From the Department of Public
Utilities — Contract No. 59070 A
with M. DiGioia Co., completed and
accepted July 25, 2002. Received.
File No. 62-03.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties re: Contract No. 59152, Morgana Park Site
Improvements. Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 63-03—William E. Donahue.
Res. No. 64-03—Louise Hart Smith
Rogers.
Res. No. 65-03—Anita Lewis Polk.
Res. No. 66-03—Garfield Warren
Hooper, Jr.
Res. No. 67-03 — Thomas E.
Schwertner.
Res. No. 68-03 — Joseph “Duke”
Kaminski.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 69-03 — The Cleveland
Orchestra.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 70-03—Lillian Salwan.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 38-03.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate property for the acquisition,
clearance, and redevelopment according to the Euclid/Prospect II
Community Development Plan for
the blighted area designated as
Treatment Area Block 3, Site B.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland, by Resolution No. 225502,
adopted
November
25,
2002,
declared the necessity and intention
of appropriating the fee simple property interests described for the
acquisition, clearance, and redevelopment under the Euclid/Prospect II
Community Development Plan for
the blighted area designated as
Treatment Area Block 3, Site B; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the resolution has been served on
the persons in possession or having
an interest in the property; and
Whereas, the acquisition, clearance, and redevelopment was determined to be a satisfactory method
for the elimination of blight and the
prevention of blight in the area des-

ignated as Treatment Area Block 3,
Site B; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of the acquisition, clearance,
and redevelopment according to the
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan for the elimination
of blight and the prevention of the
recurrence of blight in the area designated as Treatment Area Block 3,
Site B, the following described fee
simple interests are appropriated:
P. P. No. 101-26-061
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lot Nos. 87, 88,
99 and 100 further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the
Northerly
line
of
Prospect
Avenue, 82.5 feet wide with the
Easterly line of East 3rd Street;
thence North 19° 35' 23" West along
the Easterly line of East 3rd Street,
a distance of 82.50 feet to the most
Westerly corner of land conveyed to
Carole Andrews by deed recorded in
Volume 96-8563, Page 2 of Cuyahoga
County Records and the principal
place of beginning of the property
intended to be described:
Course No. 1: thence North 19° 35'
23" West continuing along the Easterly line of East 3rd Street, a distance of 80.33 feet to the Southeast
corner of land conveyed to Ohio
National Life Insurance Company;
Course No. 2: thence North 67° 13'
37" East along the Southeasterly
line of said Ohio National Life Insurance Company, a distance of 91.17
feet to a point in the Westerly line
of land conveyed to MRN Limited
Partnership by deed recorded in Volume 97-06253, Page 36 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Course No. 3: thence South 11° 43'
54" East along the Westerly line of
said land conveyed to MRN Limited
Partnership, distance of 96.96 feet to
the Northeasterly corner of land conveyed to Avram Bendoly by deed
recorded in Volume 95-06908, Page 17
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Course No. 4: thence South 78° 12'
37" West along the Northwesterly
line of said lands conveyed to
Avram Bendoly and Carole Andrews,
a distance of 78.50 feet to the place
of beginning and containing 0.1713
acres (7,462 square feet) of land
according to the survey by McSteen
and Associates, Inc. dated March 3,
2000, last revised April 13, 2000, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways (said land
being the same as Parcel 4 as
shown on the survey).
P. P. No. 101-26-070
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lot Nos. 100 and
101 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the West line of
Sheriff Street, now known as East
4th Street, at a point 96 feet North
of the Northerly line of Prospect
Street, now known as Prospect
Avenue, S.E.; thence Northerly along

32

January 15, 2003
the Westerly line of Sheriff Street,
now known as East 4th Street, 29
1/2 feet; thence Westerly at the
right angles to Sheriff Street, now
known as East 4th Street, 80 feet;
thence Southerly parallel with Sheriff Street, now known as East 4th
Street, 29 1/2 feet; thence Easterly
80 feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Law is directed to apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction to have a
jury impaneled to make inquiry into
and assess the compensation to be
paid for the fee simple interests
described.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 39-03.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
one or more concession agreements
for the operation of soft drink,
candy, snack, and other vending
machines throughout City parks and
various City-owned and City-leased
buildings.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized to enter into one or more concession agreements for the operation of soft drink, candy, snack, and
other vending machines throughout
City parks and various City-owned
and City-leased buildings under the
control of the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties and under
the control of other City departments where the director of the
department authorizes participation
in the concession agreement or
agreements with the highest and
best bidder as determined and approved by the Board of Control after
competitive bidding and advertising
as provided by Section 108 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland for
a period not to exceed three (3)
years.
Section 2. That, to the extent provided by law, fifty percent (50%) of
the City revenues derived from the
vending machines shall be deposited into the appropriate fund and
subfunds for the improvement of,
use of, and maintenance of City of
Cleveland recreation centers.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

January 15, 2003
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 42-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on the west side of East
80th Street, a.k.a. Permanent Parcel
Number 127-02-011 to Shear Service,
Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 127-02-011
as more fully described below, to
Shear Service, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 127-02-011
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
75 in Charles H. Seymour’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 431, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5, Page
38 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 80th Street (formerly
Atlantic Street) and extending back
of equal width 132 feet 3 inches, as
appears by said plat.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market

The City Record
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 43-03.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Miles Avenue to Giltz
and Associates, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 136-20-001,
136-20-002, 136-20-003 and 136-20-004,
as more fully described below, to
Giltz and Associates, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. Nos. 136-20-001, 136-20-002,
136-20-003 and 136-20-004
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Miles Avenue, 70 feet wide, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 11, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Records, at the Northeasterly corner of land conveyed to the State of
Ohio by deed dated December 9,
1959, and recorded in Volume 9781,
Page 159 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records; thence due East (assumed

33

5
bearing) along said Southerly line
of Miles Avenue, a distance of 170.00
feet to the Northwesterly corner of
land conveyed to Mary W. Okuly by
deed dated June 24, 1957, and recorded in Volume 8887, Page 56 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence South
00' 5' 10" West (assumed bearing)
along the Westerly line of land so
conveyed to Mary W. Okuly, distance of 123.22 feet to the Southwesterly corner thereof, said point
being also on the Northerly line of
land conveyed to Harold F. and F.R.
Hoffman by deed dated June 22,
1968, and recorded in Volume 12340,
Page 167 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records; thence South 89° 23' 20"
West (assumed bearing) along the
Northerly line of land so conveyed
to Harold F. and F.R. Hoffman and
the Northerly line of land conveyed
to Joseph E. and C. Sorace by deed
dated January 12, 1960, and recorded in Volume 9791, Page 395 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records, distance of 177.00 feet to the Northwesterly corner thereof and the
Easterly line of East 93rd Street, 60
feet wide; thence North 00° 05' 10"
East (assumed bearing) along the
Easterly line of said East 93rd
Street, distance of 116.10 feet to the
Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to the State of Ohio as aforesaid; thence North 37° 51' 12" East
(assumed bearing) along the Southeasterly line of land so conveyed to
the State of Ohio, a distance of 11.41
feet to the place of beginning.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance.

6
Ord. No. 44-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by
enacting new Section 133.091 relating to prohibiting the Commissioner
of Recreation from using persons
convicted of a crime to coach and/or
manage any program sponsored by
the Division of Recreation and
requiring background checks.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 133.091 thereof, to read
as follows:
Section 133.091 Prohibition of Certain Persons from Coaching Programs Sponsored by the Division of
Recreation; Background Checks.
(a) The Commissioner of Recreation is prohibited from allowing
any person who has been convicted
of a crime, other than a traffic
offense or a minor misdemeanor,
from coaching and/or managing any
program sponsored by the Division
of Recreation.
(b) To ensure compliance with
division (a), the Commissioner shall
require background checks to be
completed on any person volunteering to be coach or manager of a
Division of Recreation sponsored
program. The Commissioner may
require background checks at any
time during the period a person acts
as a coach or manager for the Division of Recreation. A volunteer,
prospective or otherwise, shall complete any and all documentation
required by the Commissioner of
Recreation, including supplying fingerprints if necessary, for conducting the background checks contemplated in this division.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation, and Properties, Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 46-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts with Metropolitan
Strategy Group to provide a comprehensive study relating to foreclosures occurring in the City of
Cleveland during certain years for
the
Department
of
Community
Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Metropolitan Strategy
Group for professional services necessary to provide a comprehensive
study relating to foreclosures occurring in the City of Cleveland during
the years 1997, 1999, and 2001, including but not limited to, compiling
information describing reason for
foreclosure, describing loan terms
and lender identification, making
recommendations for improving data
storage, data collection, and preventing future foreclosures, and providing technical assistance to map
related information, on the basis of
their amended proposal dated July
18, 2002, in the total sum of $25,000,
payable from Fund No. 14 SF 027,
Request No. 125725, for the Department of Community Development.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 40-03.
By
Council
Members
Jackson,
Britt, Lewis and Scott (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to employ one or more professional consultants to review the
processes and controls of the City of
Cleveland’s Empowerment Zone.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to review the processes and controls of
the City of Cleveland’s Empowerment Zone, including but not limited to assessing current Empowerment Zone processes and procedures,
providing
a
comprehensive
risk
analysis of contracts, and other
reports and services, and developing
an action plan and provide assistance for improving services and
operations within the Empowerment
Zone.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Economic
Development from a list of qualified
consultants
available
for
the
employment as may be determined

34

January 15, 2003
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Economic Development for the purpose of compiling
the list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Economic Development, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for the
services contemplated shall be paid
from Fund No. 18 SF 005, Request
No. 103582.
Section 3. That the Council President shall appoint a subcommittee of
City Council members to participate
with the Director of Economic Development to review a Request for Proposal, review responses
received
from prospective bidders, and make
recommendations with respect to the
nomination of one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants. Upon the nomination of one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants, the subcommittee shall continue to work with the
Director of Economic Development
with respect to the consultants’
review of the processes and controls
of the Empowerment Zone.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 45-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland, 1976 by
amending Sections 659.01 through
659.04, and Section 178.07 as amended by Ordinance No. 737-02 passed
April 22, 2002 regarding predatory
lending.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 659.01
through 659.04, and Section 178.07 of
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 737-02 passed
April 22, 2002, are amended to read,
respectively, as follows:
Section 659.01 Definitions
(a) “Affiliate” means any entity
that controls, is controlled by, or is
under common control with another
entity, as the term “control” is
defined under the Bank Holding
Company Act, 12 U.S.C. §§ 1841 –
1849, including any successors in
interest or alter egos.
(b)
“Annual
percentage
rate”
means the annual percentage rate
for the loan calculated according to
the provisions of the federal Truth
in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. §1601 et.
seq.), and the regulations promul-

January 15, 2003
gated thereunder by the Federal
Reserve Board (as said Act and regulations are amended from time to
time).
(c) “Business Entity” means any
individual, domestic corporation, foreign corporation, association, syndicate, joint stock company, partnership, joint venture, or unincorporated association, including any parent
company, subsidiary, exclusive distributor or company affiliated therewith, engaged in a business or commercial enterprise.
(d) “City” means the City of Cleveland, its departments, boards and
commissions.
(e) “Points and Fees” means:
(1) All items required to be disclosed under sections 226.4(a) and
226.4(b) of Title 12 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, as amended
from time to time, except the interest rate or time-price differential;
(2) Subject to the exclusions provided in this section, all charges for
items
listed
under
section
226.4(c)(7) of Title 12 of the Code
of Federal Regulations, as amended
from time to time, but only if the
lender receives direct or indirect
compensation in connection with the
charge or the charge is paid to an
affiliate of the lender; otherwise the
charges are not included within the
meaning of the phrase “points and
fees”; and
(3) All compensation paid directly or indirectly to a mortgage broker, including a broker that originates a loan in its own name in a
tablefunded transaction, not otherwise included in divisions (1) or (2)
of this section.
“Points and fees” shall not include
any charges or fees excluded by
paragraphs (c) through (e) of Regulation Z of the Truth in Lending
Act, section 226.4 of Title 12 of the
Code of Federal Regulations; however, notwithstanding the foregoing,
any fees for preparing loan-related
documents, such as deeds, mortgages, and reconveyance or
settlement documents shall be
included in the definition of “points
and fees”.
(f) “Predatory loan” means a loan
that is secured by owner-occupied
residential real property located
within the City of Cleveland on
which there is situated a dwelling
for not more than four families, a
condominium unit, or a cooperative
unit, if:
(1) at any time over the life of
the loan for a fixed interest rate
loan, or at the time a loan is consummated for a variable interest
rate loan, the annual percentage
rate of the loan equals or exceeds
by more than four and one half (4
1/2) percentage points but less than
or equal to eight (8) percentage
points in the case of a mortgage
that is a first lien when it is made,
or equals or exceeds by more than
six and one half (6 1/2) percentage
points but less than or equal to ten
(10) percentage points in the case
of a mortgage that is junior when
it is made, the yield on Treasury
securities having comparable periods of maturity to the loan maturity as of the fifteenth day of the
month immediately preceding the
month in which the application for
the extension of credit is received
by the creditor; and
(2) that was made under circumstances that involve any of the following acts or practices or that con-

The City Record
tains any of the following loan
terms:
A. “Loan Flipping”. “Flipping” a
loan means the refinancing of an
existing loan secured by owner-occupied residential real estate in the
City of Cleveland on which there is
situated a dwelling for not more
than four families, a condominium
unit, or a cooperative unit when:
i. More than 50% of the prior debt
refinanced bears a lower interest
rate than the new loan unless the
lender has received notice from a
counselor employed by a housing
counseling agency approved by the
Department of Housing and Urban
Development, that the borrower has
received counseling describing the
loan transaction and its impact on
the borrower;
ii. The borrower’s payment of prepaid finance charges and closing
costs reduces the interest rate but it
will take more than five (5) years
for the borrower to recoup the
transactions costs; or
iii. A mortgage is refinanced that
originated, or was subsidized or
guaranteed by or through a state,
tribal or local government, or nonprofit organization, which bears
either a below-market interest rate,
or has nonstandard payment terms
beneficial to the borrower, such as
payments that vary with income, are
limited to a percentage of income,
or where no payments are required
under
specified
conditions,
and
where, as a result of the refinancing, the borrower will lose one or
more of the benefits of the mortgage,
unless
the
borrower
has
received counseling from a certified
housing counseling agency regarding such refinancing and the borrower and current holder of the loan
consent in writing to the refinancing.
B. “Balloon Payments”. A loan
that contains a scheduled payment
that is more than twice as large as
the average of earlier scheduled
payments or which contains a provision that gives the lender, in its
sole discretion, the right to accelerate the indebtedness in the absence
of the default of the borrower. The
term “balloon payment” shall not
apply to (i) any loan with a maturity of one year or less, if the purpose of the loan is a “bridge” loan
connected with the acquisition or
construction of a dwelling intended
to become the consumer’s principal
dwelling, or (ii) a home equity line
of credit secured by the borrower’s
primary dwelling.
C. “Negative Amortization”. Terms
under which the outstanding principal balance will increase at any
time over the course of the loan
because the regular periodic payments do not cover the full amount
of interest due.
D. “Points and Fees”. The financing of points and fees in excess of
four (4) percentage points of the
total
loan
amount
if
the
loan
amount is $16,000 or greater, or $800
if the loan amount is less than
$16,000.
E. “Increased Interest Rate”. A
loan that provides for an interest
rate applicable after default that is
higher than the interest rate that
applies before default.
F. “Advance Payments”. A loan
which includes terms under which
more than two periodic payments
required under the loan are consolidated and paid in advance from the

35

7
loan proceeds provided to the borrower.
G. “Mandatory Arbitration”. A loan
which contains a mandatory arbitration clause that limits in any
way the right of the borrower to
seek relief through a court of law
or equity.
H. “Prepayment Penalties”. A loan
under which a borrower must pay a
prepayment penalty for paying all
or part of the principal before the
date on which the principal is due.
Any method of computing a refund
of unearned scheduled interest is a
prepayment penalty if it is less
favorable to the consumer than the
actuarial
method,
as
“actuarial
method” is defined in division (A)
of Section 1349.25 of the Revised
Code. The term “prepayment penalties” shall not include prepayment
penalties imposed in accordance
with the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994, 15 U.S.C.A.
1639 (c)(2), as amended, and the
regulations adopted thereunder by
the federal reserve board, as amended.
I. “Financing of Credit Insurance”.
The financing of single premium
credit life, credit disability, credit
unemployment, or any other life or
health insurance, directly or indirectly, into one or more loans.
J. “Lending Without Home Loan
Counseling”. Except in conformity
with
the
provisions
of
division
(b)(1)(B) of Section 659.02, failing
to receive notice from a counselor
employed by a housing counseling
agency approved by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development
that the borrower has received counseling describing the loan transaction and its impact on the borrower
based upon the information provided by borrower and lender to the
counselor at the time counseling is
provided to the borrower.
K. “Lending Without Due Regard
to Repayment”. Except in conformity with the provisions of division
(b)(1)(B) of Section 659.02, making,
issuing or originating a loan without reasonable belief at the time the
loan is consummated that the borrower or borrowers (when considered collectively in the case of multiple borrowers) will be able to
make the scheduled payments to
repay the obligation based upon a
consideration of their current and
expected income, current obligations, employment status, and other
financial resources (other than the
borrower’s equity in the dwelling
which secures repayment of the
loan). A borrower shall be presumed
to be able to make the scheduled
payments to repay the obligation if,
at the time the loan is consummated, or at the time of the first rate
adjustment in the case of a lower
introductory interest rate (i) the
borrower’s scheduled monthly payments on the loan (including principal, interest, taxes, insurance and
assessments), combined with the
scheduled payments for all other
debt, do not exceed 50% of the borrower’s documented and verified
monthly gross income, and (ii) provided that the borrower has sufficient “residual income” as defined in
the guidelines established in 38
C.F.R. §36.4337(e) and VA form 266393
to
pay
essential
monthly
expenses after paying the scheduled
payments and any additional debt.
L. The payment by a lender to a
contractor on a home improvement

8
contract from the proceeds of a loan,
other than:
i. by an instrument payable to the
borrower or borrowers;
ii. by an instrument payable jointly to the borrower and the contractor, provided however that no more
than 30% of the total proceeds of
the loan shall be disbursed to the
contractor at the time of closing; or
iii. at the election of the borrower, by a third party escrow agent in
accordance with terms established
in a written agreement signed by
the borrower, the lender and the
contractor before the date of payment. However, “predatory loan”
shall not include a loan that is made
primarily for a business purpose
unrelated to the residential real
property securing the loan.
For purposes of division (f)(1) of
this Section, if the terms of the
home loan include an initial or introductory period, and the annual percentage rate is less than that which
will apply after the end of such initial or introductory period, then the
annual percentage rate that shall be
taken into account for purposes of
this Section shall be the first annual percentage rate adjustment that
is calculated and disclosed in conformance with the provisions of
division (b) of Section 659.01 for the
period after the initial or introductory period.
(g) “Home Improvement Contractor” means any person who engages
in the business of making home
improvements, and who undertakes
or offers to undertake or agrees to
perform any home improvement,
whether or not such person is registered, or subject to the licensing
and registration requirements of
Chapter 3107 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
whether or not such person is a general contractor.
Section 659.02 Predatory Lending
Practices Prohibited
(a) Prohibited Conduct.
Subject to the limitations of division (b) of this section:
(1) Issuing Predatory Loans. No
person or business entity shall
make, issue, or arrange a predatory
loan, or assist others in doing so. A
person who, when acting in good
faith, fails to comply with this division will not be deemed to have violated this division if the person
establishes that the compliance failure was not intentional and resulted from a bona fide error notwithstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably adapted to avoid
such errors, and within 60 days after
the discovery of the compliance failure and prior to the institution of
any action under this Chapter or the
receipt of written notice of compliance failure, the borrower is notified
of the compliance failure, appropriate restitution is made, and whatever adjustments are necessary are
made to the loan to either, at the
choice of the borrower, (i) make the
predatory loan satisfy the requirements of this Chapter, or (ii)
change the terms of the loan in a
manner beneficial to the borrower
so that the loan will no longer be
considered a predatory loan subject
to the provisions of this Chapter.
Examples of a bona fide error
include clerical, calculation, computer malfunction and programming,
and printing errors. An error of
legal judgment with respect to a

The City Record
person’s
obligations
under
this
Chapter is not a bona fide error.
(2) Lending Without Home Loan
Counseling. No person or business
entity shall make, issue or arrange,
or assist others in making, issuing
or arranging, any loan that is
secured by owner-occupied residential real property located within the
City of Cleveland on which there is
situated a dwelling for not more
than four families, a condominium
unit, or a cooperative unit in which
either:
A. the annual percentage rate at
consummation will exceed by more
than eight (8) percentage points for
first lien loans, or by more than ten
(10) percentage points for subordinate-lien loans, the yield on Treasury securities having comparable
periods of maturity to the loan
maturity as of the fifteenth day of
the month immediately preceding
the month in which the application
for
the
extension
of
credit
is
received by the creditor; or
B. the total points and fees
payable by the consumer at or
before loan closing will exceed the
greater of eight (8) percent of the
total loan amount, or $400; the $400
figure shall be adjusted annually on
January 1 by the annual percentage
rate change in the consumer price
index that was reported on the preceding June 1, unless that person or
business entity first receives notice
from a counselor employed by a
housing
counseling
agency
approved by the Department of Housing and Urban Development that the
borrower has received counseling
describing the loan transaction and
its impact on the borrower based
upon the information provided by
borrower and lender to the counselor at the time counseling is provided to the borrower.
(3) Payments to Home Improve ment Contractors. A home improvement contractor may not receive
directly and solely from the lender,
the proceeds of a loan that is
secured by owner-occupied residential real property located within the
City of Cleveland on which there is
situated a dwelling for not more
than four families, a condominium
unit, or a cooperative unit in which,
at any time over the life of the loan
for a fixed interest rate loan, or at
the time a loan is consummated for
a variable interest rate loan, the
annual percentage rate of the loan
equals or exceeds by more than four
and one half (4 1/2) percentage
points in the case of a mortgage
that is a first lien when it is made,
or equals or exceeds by more than
six and one half (6 1/2) percentage
points in the case of a mortgage
that is junior when it is made, the
yield on Treasury securities having
comparable periods of maturity to
the loan maturity as of the fifteenth
day of the month immediately preceding the month in which the application for the extension of credit is
received by the creditor.
(4) Incorporating Governmental
Financial Assistance Funds. All persons shall be barred from promoting, utilizing, packaging, or in any
other way incorporating funds from
any of the programs administered
by the City in combination with any
predatory loan. Any contract, lease,
grant or other agreement entered
into by the City with any person or
business entity shall contain a provision requiring that the person or

36

January 15, 2003
business entity, in the administration of governmental housing assistance funds, abide by the provisions
of this division as though its administration of such funds was directly
subject to the provisions of this division.
(b) Activities of Certain Financial
Institutions Exempted.
(1) Division (a) of this section is
not applicable in the following circumstances:
A. With respect to a lender duly
licensed as may be required under
State law, solely because of the
presence
of
a
loan
provision
described in divisions (f)(2)(B), (C)
or (H) of Section 659.01, provided
that such provision(s) are made in
conformity with the requirements of
federal law pursuant to the Alternative Mortgage Transaction Parity
Act, 12 U.S.C. §3803 and provided
that any such loan is not otherwise
predatory as defined in division (f)
of Section 659.01; or
B. In the case of a loan made pursuant to the Ohio’s Mortgage Loan
Act, R.C. §1321.51 et. seq., solely
because the loan contains any provision authorized by such act, provided that any such loan is not otherwise predatory as defined in division (f) of Section 659.01.
(2) Divisions (a)(1) and (a)(2)
of this section are not applicable
with respect to a State chartered
bank, bank and trust company, savings bank, private bank, national
bank, or a State or federally chartered savings and loan association,
a federally chartered savings bank,
a State or federally chartered credit union.
(3) This section shall apply to
affiliates of the entities enumerated
in division (b)(2) of this section,
except insofar as such affiliates are
themselves one of those financial
institutions.
Section 659.03 Notice to Customers
of Home Improvement Loans
(a) No person or business entity
that
knowingly
funds
a
home
improvement loan under the circumstances described in this section
shall fail to furnish the notice
described in this section. At least
three (3) business days prior to closing, every lender who knowingly
funds a home improvement loan
shall furnish a notice along with
any home improvement loan for any
work to be performed on owneroccupied
residential
real
estate
located within the City of Cleveland
on
which
there
is
situated
a
dwelling for not more than four
families, a condominium unit, or a
cooperative unit and which loan is
secured by that real estate, shall
furnish a notice to the borrower.
That notice shall be furnished as a
separate document, printed in 16
point font, with the signature line
at the top of the page, and shall be
in substantially the same form as
the following, as may
be amended from time to time by
the Department of Consumer Affairs:
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO
CUSTOMERS OF HOME
IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTORS
I received this notice on this date:
_______________________________ (date)
_________________________ signature of
home owner(s)

The City Record

January 15, 2003
If you need a loan to pay for home
improvements:
BE CAREFUL. A lender will probably want to take a mortgage on
your house.
You should not borrow more than
you can afford or more than you
need. The loanyou are being offered
may be a predatory loan. You may
be eligible for a different loan
which charges significantly less
interest or fees. Be very cautious
about consolidating your debt with
a home mortgage. Beware that if
you default on this loan you could
lose your house! In certain cases, it
is now the law in Cleveland that
before you sign a home loan you
must receive housing counseling
assistance.
For the name, address and phone
number of a housing counseling or
legal services agency in your neighborhood, turn this notice over to see
the list of agencies printed on the
reverse side.
(b) For purposes of division (a)
of this section, a “home improvement loan” shall not include a loan
commonly known as a “home equity
line of credit”.
Section
659.04
Certification
of
Compliance to be Recorded
No lender or, if applicable, mortgage broker, shall fail to submit the
certification of compliance to the
Cuyahoga County Recorder’s Office
as described in this section. At the
time of recording a mortgage on
owner-occupied residential real property located in the City of Cleveland
on
which
there
is
situated
a
dwelling for not more than four
families, a condominium unit, or a
cooperative unit, and which mortgage secures a loan where the
annual percentage rate of the loan
equals or exceeds by more than four
and one half (4 1/2) percentage
points in the case of a mortgage
that is a first lien when it is made,
or equals or exceeds by more than
six and one half (6 1/2) percentage
points in the case of a mortgage
that is junior when it is made, the
yield on Treasury securities having
comparable periods of maturity to
the loan maturity as of the fifteenth
day of the month immediately preceding the month in which the application of the extension of credit is
received by the creditor, the lender
and, if applicable the mortgage broker, shall submit a certification of
compliance to the Cuyahoga County
Recorder’s
Office
for
recording
along with the mortgage instrument
and deed. It is not necessary to
record a certificate of compliance
for a loan that is made primarily for
a business purpose unrelated to the
residential real property securing
the loan. The certification of compliance shall be substantially in the
following form and shall comply
with any formatting requirements
promulgated from time to time by
the Cuyahoga County Recorder’s
Office.
CERTIFICATION
The undersigned lender and mortgage broker certify, that to the best
of our knowledge, information and
belief,
the
attached
mortgage,
described
below,
entered
into
between __________________ (name of
lender) and ______________ (name of
borrower) on ____________ (date of
execution) for the property located
at __________________ (street address

of property) contains the following
characteristics and terms:
Type of mortgage:
Purchase Money
Non-purchase Money
(circle one)
First Mortgage
Junior Mortgage
(circle one)
a. The annual percentage rate of
the loan at closing is ______________
______________________________________
b. The applicable Treasury Rate
(i.e., the yield on Treasury securities having comparable periods of
maturity to the loan maturity as of
the fifteenth day of the month
immediately preceding the month in
which the application for the extension of credit is received by the
creditor) is ________________________
c. The total loan amount is ______
______________________________________
d. The total amount of points and
fees (as defined in division (e) of
Section 659.01) is ___________________
e. The percentage of points and
fees (calculated according to the
equation d/(c-d)x100) financed is
______________________________________
f. The borrower has or has not
(circle one) received housing counseling. A notice of housing counseling is or is not (circle one) attached
to this certification.
g. The mortgage does or does not
(circle one) violate any provisions
of Chapter 659 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976.
Date: ____________
__________________

Mortgage Lender

__________________

Name and Title
of Officer

__________________

Address

__________________

Telephone Number

OR
__________________

Mortgage Broker

__________________

Name and Title
of Officer

__________________

Address

__________________

Telephone Number

__________________

State of Ohio
Registration No.

I, [lender], have filled out each
blank space of this document and
have given it to the customer and it
is true and accurate.
Signed: __________
I, [mortgage
out each blank
ment and have
tomer and it is

Date: __________

broker], have filled
space of this docugiven it to the custrue and accurate.

Signed: __________

Date: __________

I, [borrower], have received and
reviewed with the contractor a copy
of this document.
Signed: __________

Date: __________

Section 178.07 Affidavit
The affidavit required by division
(a) of Section 178.05 shall be in the
following form and shall contain the
information herein required:

37

9
STATE OF OHIO
COUNTY OF CUYAHOGA
SS:AFFIDAVIT OF INTENT
I, ______________, a duly-authorized
representative of ____________, being
first sworn, depose and say as follows:
1. That for the purpose of becoming an eligible depository for active
deposits of the City of Cleveland,
the undersigned affiant states that
it will develop lending and financing opportunities and make “best
efforts” to undertake a defined lending program of committed action in
support of residential and commercial
development
in
Cleveland’s
neighborhoods.
Affiant states that such best
efforts shall include, but are not limited to:
A. The presence of identifiable
trained personnel in real estate with
sole
responsibility
and
lending
authority and a clearly defined
focus on “neighborhood development” finance as defined in Section
178.04 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
B. Cooperation with and support
of non-profit neighborhood development organizations in the successful
implementation
of
“neighborhood
development” finance, through vehicles such as grants, below-market
financing and equity investments.
C. A willingness to participate in
the financing of publicly-subsidized
neighborhood development projects.
D. A commitment to affirmatively
market and make available banking
services
throughout
Cleveland’s
neighborhoods.
E. The cooperative establishment
of
investment
services
through
incentive programs such as linked
deposits and compensating balance
transactions.
2. Further, the affiant represents
that neither [insert institution desiring to become City depository], nor
any of its affiliates, (i) will make
predatory loans as defined in Chapter 659 of the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976;
(ii) will violate Section 1349.27 of
the Revised Code.
3. Further, the affiant agrees to
submit the information required in
Section 178.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the Director of Finance on an annual basis.
4. Further, the affiant agrees to
submit statements and information
of such affirmative participation as
required in this affidavit which has
occurred within the annual review
period.
Section 2. That existing Sections
659.01 through 659.04 and Section
178.07, as amended by Ordinance No.
737-02 passed April 22, 2002, are
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

10
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 41-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Reed.
An emergency resolution opposing
the profiling of suspects based solely upon race, ethnic origin, religion,
or other similar factor and encouraging the federal government to
assist local law enforcement agencies in their efforts to provide education and training for law enforcement officers regarding appropriate
investigative and enforcement techniques.
Whereas, all Americans have a
right to expect equal treatment by
law enforcement offices, prosecuting
authorities, judges and correctional
officials; and
Whereas, discriminatory enforcement of criminal laws has a corrosive effect on American cities and
towns, undermines the confidence of
the community in law enforcement,
and interferes with efforts to prevent crime and prosecute offenders;
and
Whereas, unfortunately, our country has a long history of disparate
treatment in our criminal justice
system; and
Whereas, numerous studies confirm that racial minorities, especially African Americans and Latinos,
are more likely to be arrested, more
likely to be prosecuted and more
likely to be incarcerated for offenses that whites accused of the same
crime; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
supports
federal
legislation
and
action which eliminates discrimination in the enforcement of our criminal justice system; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
opposes profiling of suspects based
solely on race, ethnic origin, religion, or other similar factor; and
Whereas, the Council encourages
the federal government to assist
local law enforcement agencies in
their efforts to provide education
and training for law enforcement
officers regarding appropriate investigative
and
enforcement
techniques; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes profiling of suspects based solely upon race, ethnic origin, religion,
or other similar factor.
Section
2.
That
this
Council
encourages the federal government
to assist local law enforcement
agencies in their efforts to provide
education and training for law
enforcement officers regarding appropriate investigative and enforcement techniques.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to U.S. Senator Michael DeWine, U.S. Senator
George
Voinovich,
Congressman
Dennis
Kucinich,
and
Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs-Jones.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

The City Record
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 47-03.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Reed, Sweeney and Coats.
An emergency resolution encouraging the Transportation Security
Administration to reconsider and
review Security Directive SD 1542-0203A to determine if exceptions may
be granted under certain circumstances and encouraging the U.S.
Senate and U.S. House of Representatives to pass legislation granting
exceptions to Security Directive SD
1542-02-03A when certain conditions
are met.
Whereas, the Department of Transportation, Transportation Security
Administration (“TSA”) issued Security Directive SD 1542-02-03A on
November 8, 2002; and
Whereas, this Security Directive
requires all airport operators to conduct certain security measures for
each employee of a vendor working
in a sterile area of the airport and
for each airport operator employee
who works in a sterile area; and
Whereas, airport operators were
required within ten (10) calendar
days of receipt of the Security Directive to submit information, including an employee’s name, social security number, date of birth, city and
state of birth, and current residential address, to the Aviation Security Clearinghouse for all employees
who work in the sterile area of an
airport; and
Whereas, security staff at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
compiled and submitted the requested information for more than seven
hundred (700) vendor employees;
and
Whereas, Cleveland Hopkins International Airport received a criminal
background check report for each
individual whose name and information was submitted to the Aviation Security Clearinghouse; and
Whereas, any employee convicted
of one or more of the disqualifying
offenses is prohibited from accessing a sterile area of the airport; and
Whereas,
fifteen
(15)
vendor
employees at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport were convicted
of a disqualifying offense; and
Whereas, such employees are prohibited from accessing a sterile area
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport and, therefore, these fifteen
(15) vendor employees were either
fired or forced to resign; and
Whereas, several of these employees were convicted of a disqualifying offense several years ago; and
Whereas, several of these employees have been model employees for
several years and the TSA’s Security Directive appears to be unfair
and
unnecessarily
restrictive
as
applied to these employees; and
Whereas, in these instances, the
effect of the TSA’s Security Directive is contrary to the spirit of fair
employment; and

38

January 15, 2003
Whereas, this Council feels that
individuals who have paid their debt
to society for a criminal offense
should be permitted the opportunity
to obtain gainful employment; and
Whereas, this Council encourages
the TSA to reconsider and review
Security Directive SD 1542-02-03A to
determine if exceptions may be
granted
under
certain
circumstances; and
Whereas, this Council encourages
the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of
Representatives to pass legislation
granting
exceptions
to
Security
Directive SD 1542-02-03A when certain conditions are met; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
encourages the TSA to reconsider
and review Security Directive SD
1542-02-03A to determine if exceptions may be granted under certain
circumstances.
Section
2.
That
this
Council
encourages the U.S. Senate and U.S.
House of Representatives to pass
legislation granting exceptions to
Security Directive SD 1542-02-03A
when certain conditions are met.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to President
George Bush, U.S. Senator Michael
DeWine,
U.S.
Senator
George
Voinovich,
Congressman
Dennis
Kucinich, Congresswoman Stephanie
Tubbs-Jones, Congressman Steven
LaTourette, Congressman Sherrod
Brown, Congressman Ralph Regula,
and the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1540-02.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Eleanor B. Rainey
Memorial Institute for providing an
after school arts education program
in order to carry out the public purpose of providing education to the
residents of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 9 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.

January 15, 2003
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2157-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease By Way of Concession with IMG Motorsports –
Cleveland, Inc. for use of certain
premises at Burke Lakefront Airport
to conduct the “Grand Prix” auto
races, for a period not to exceed five
years.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2227-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 28672 between the City of Cleveland and Trans World Airlines, LLC
to delete certain space from their
lease.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 6, after “office”
insert “retroactive to October 21,
2002,”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 2470-02.
By Council Members Lewis and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 8, 31 and 37 of Ordinance
No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, as
amended, relating to compensation
for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 8-03.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to authorize the issuance and sale of subordinated Airport Revenue Notes in
the aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $48,500,000, in anticipation
of the issuance of Bonds, to retire
outstanding notes issued to pay
costs of acquiring real property and
interests in real property for the
purpose of improving the airport
system.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,

The City Record
Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, City Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 2336-02.
By
Council
Members
Cintron,
Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention of the City of
Cleveland to locate the Workforce
Development/One-Stop Career or a
satellite office within a one-mile
radius of the West 25th Avenue and
Clark area.
Approved by Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law;
Adoption
recommended
by
Committees on Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2397-02.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Scott, Zone, Coats, O’Malley, Reed
and Jones.
An emergency resolution encouraging and supporting the creation
of a 511 traveler information system
for the State of Ohio; encouraging
the State of Ohio to implement a 511
traveler information system; and
encouraging the Director of the Ohio
Department of Transportation to
submit a grant application for 511
planning.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Ord. No. 926-02.
By
Councilmen
O’Malley
and
Brady.
An emergency ordinance to enact
Sections 675A.01 to 675A.11 and
675A.99 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 relating to
door-to-door solicitors; and to amend
Section 675.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 532-93, passed June 14,
1993, relating to definitions and
chapter scope of peddlers and produce dealers.
Ord. No. 2110-02.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for administrative expenses of the Department of
Community Development.
Ord. No. 2383-02.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into professional services contracts, purchase contracts and requirement contracts to obtain marketing and advertising services,

39

11
materials, and equipment necessary
to promote the Cleveland Hopkins
International and Burke Lakefront
Airports, for a period of one year.
Without objection, Ordinance Nos.
926-02, 2110-02, and 2383-02 were
relieved of further consideration of
all committees and was laid on the
table pursuant to the Rules of Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Legislation tabled.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:11 p.m. to meet on Monday, January 27, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

January 8, 2003
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, January 8,
2003, at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Campbell presiding.
Present: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Director McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti and Director
Fumich.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Carol Whitaker, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 1-03.
By Director Baker.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that pursuant to Section 101 of the Charter,
Section 181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, and
Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the
Board of Control on November 26,
1952 the report of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies for the
sale of scrap, personal property, and
by-products during the month of
December, 2002 in the amount of
$2,294.52, hereto attached and made
a part hereof, is hereby received,
approved and filed.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Direc-

12
tor McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti, and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 2-03.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on October 31, 2002
for Labor and Materials to Maintain
Card Access and Electronic Security
Systems for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1388-2000, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland on October
9, 2000 are hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Director McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti, and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 3-03.
By Director Mok.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that pursuant to Article 8 of the
Agreement and Lease between the
City of Cleveland and the Original
Scheduled Airlines and the Additional Scheduled Airlines, the 2003
Annual Budget and calculation of
the Rentals and Landing Fee Rates
shall be adopted and effective as of
January 1, 2003.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Director McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti, and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 4-03.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of E. J. Ward, Inc. for the following:
automated fuel dispensing system
upgrade for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, received on November
13, 2002, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1424-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland July
17, 2002, which on the basis of the
order quantity would amount to Two
Hundred Thirty-Four Thousand Four
Hundred Ninety-Nine and 42/100 Dollars ($234,499.42) (Net) is hereby
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a contract for such items.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Director McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti, and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 5-03.
By Acting Director Carroll.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid

The City Record
of Memorial Services Inc. DBA F.J.
Corrigan Funeral Services for an
estimated quantity of Indigent Burials (all items) for the Division of
Health,
Department
of
Public
Health, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
20th day of November, 2002 pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
680-02 passed May 13, 2002, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Twenty Nine Thousand Five Hundred Ten and 00/100
($29,510.00) Dollars (5% — 30 days)
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Health is hereby
requested to enter into requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 113146
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Ten
Thousand and 00/100 ($10,000.00)
Dollars.
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Director McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti, and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 6-03.
By Director Draper.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Tom Paige Catering Company,
for prisoner meals, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public
Safety, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of
expiration of the previous contract,
with one one-year option to renew,
received on October 30, 2002 pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1102-02, passed by Cleveland City
Council on June 17, 2002, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Four Hundred Seventy-Seven Thousand, One Hundred
Forty-Eight
and
80/100
Dollars
($477,148.80), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 119632
as specified,
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Forty Thousand 00/100 Dollars ($40,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as

40

January 15, 2003
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Director McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti, and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 7-03.
By Acting Director Glending.
Whereas, Resolution No. 790-02,
adopted by this Board on December
4, 2002, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1013-02, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on May 20,
2002, as amended by Ordinance No.
1394-02, passed by the Cleveland
City Council on July 17, 2002, authorized the Director of Parks, Recreation & Properties to enter into a contract with R. DiLillo & Company as
the lowest responsible bidder for the
public
improvement
of
Barkwill
Park, in the aggregate amount of
Three
Hundred
Five
Thousand,
Four Hundred Ten and 88/100 Dollars ($305,410.88); and
Whereas,
the
City
desires
to
amend Resolution No. 790-02 to
include the clarification and additional
funding
available
under
authority of Ordinance Nos. 1748-99
and 2479-02; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 79002 adopted December 4, 2002, affirming and approving R. DiLillo & Company as the lowest responsible bidder for certain improvements to
Barkwill Park site is hereby amended by adding “Ordinance No. 1748-99,
passed on April 17, 2000,” before
“Ordinance No. 1013-02,” and by
adding “as amended by Ordinance
No. 2479-02, passed on December 16,
2002,” after “Ordinance No. 1394-02,
passed on July 17, 2002.”
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 790-02 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Director McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti, and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 8-03.
By Acting Director Glending.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Nerone & Sons for
the public improvement of Kenneth
L. Johnson Aquatic Playground &
Site Improvements, for Base Bid
Items #1 - #72, #74 - #77, Alternate
Item #A2 and Add Alternate Item
#AA1 including the 3% contingency
for the Division of Research, Planning & Development, Department of
Parks,
Recreation &
Properties,
received on September 13, 2002, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1114-02, passed on June 17, 2002,
Ordinance No. 930-2000, passed on
June 19, 2000 as amended by Ordinance
No.
1594-2000,
passed
on

The City Record

January 15, 2003
November 27, 2000, upon a unit basis
for the improvement in the aggregate amount of Seven Hundred
Thirty
Thousand
Four
Hundred
Thirty
Six
and
18/100
Dollars
($730,436.18), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid; and the Director of Department
of Parks, Recreation & Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract for said improvement with
said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Nerone & Sons for the aforementioned public improvement hereby is
approved:
Subcontractors

Responsibility

Gateway Electric
(MBE) — Electrical
Lito Trucking
(MBE) — Trucking
Ballast Fence
(FBE) — Fencing
Collinwood Concrete
(FBE) — Ready Mix Concrete
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Director McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti, and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 9-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No(s). 015-08-130, 01512-003, 015-15-015, 015-10-045, 015-110046 under said Land Reutilization
Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 2244-02
passed December 9, 2002, authorized
the sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Civic Builders LLC has
proposed to the City to purchase
and develop said parcels; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to the authorization
of Ordinance No. 2244-02 passed
December 9, 2002, by the Cleveland
City Council, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Civic Builders
LLC for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No(s). 015-08130, 015-12-003, 015-15-015, 015-10-045,
015-10-046, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than

the fair market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Director McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti, and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 10-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 007-12-033 and 007-12-071 located
on York Avenue in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Norwood Collins and
Vickie Collins, abutting/adjacentlandowners, have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said,
parcels; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcels are either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcels are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development, and the
Mayor is hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland,
with Norwood Collins and Vickie
Collins for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00712-033 and 007-12-071 located on York
Avenue, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$1.00 each, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with said
Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Director McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti, and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.

41

13
Resolution No. 11-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 287-02, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
on March 4, 2002, the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
various individuals and/or families
for assistance in the financing of
housing being acquired in the City
of Cleveland in order to improve the
economic and general well-being of
the people of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, the City has established
a Housing Advisory Board to review
the City’s comprehensive affordable
housing strategy and various housing assistance programs; and
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed and approved
the proposed mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance to home buyers program; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 287-02,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on March 4, 2002, this
Board of Control hereby approves
Twenty
Thousand
Dollars
($20,000.00) as the amount of the
Mortgage
Loan
to
Michael
E.
Wilcox, 3238 East 140th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, as approved
by the Housing Advisory Board on
February 27, 2001 and ratified on
March 20, 2001.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Director McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti, and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
Resolution No. 12-03.
By Director Draper.
Resolved by the Board of Control of
the City of Cleveland that the bid of
Aon Risk Services, Inc. of Ohio for
aviation insurance, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety,
for the period of one (1) year beginning with the date of execution of a
contract, received on December 18,
2002 pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 2172-02, passed by Cleveland City Council on November 11,
2002, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to One
Hundred Eighteen Thousand Seven
Hundred Three and 00/100 Dollars
($118,703.00), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No: 119637
as specified,
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred Eighteen Thousand Seven
Hundred Three and 00/100 dollars
($118,703.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or

The City Record

14
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Director
Chandra, Acting Director Abouserhal, Director Konicek, Acting Director McGraw, Director Ricchiuto, Acting Directors Carroll, Smith, Glending, Directors Hudecek, Romero,
Acting Director Pesti, and Fumich.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Taylor.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2003
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 02-357: 3895 West 136th
Street (Ward 20)
Motion for Reconsideration having
been granted on January 6, 2003,
Michael A. Sopko, owner, appeals for
reconsideration of a denial decision
on December 23, 2002, based on new
evidence to install approximately 57
linear feet of 4' high chain link
fencing to the rear and side yards
of a 35' x 120' corner parcel located in an A1 One-Family District on
the east side of West 136th Street at
3895 West 136th Street; said installation being contrary to the Fence
Regulations, where only ornamental
fences shall be installed in actual
front yards and actual side street
yards if located in a residential district and within 4' of the side street
property line as stated in Section

358.04(c)(1)
nances.

of

the

Codified

January 15, 2003
Ordi-

Calendar No. 03-5: 11805 McGowan
Avenue (Ward 20)
Henry Wiseman, owner, appeals
to construct as 10' x 15' porch with
a ramp to the front of an existing
one family dwelling house all situated on a 35' x 104' parcel located
in an A1 One-Family District on the
south side of McGowan Avenue at
11805 McGowan Avenue; said construction being contrary to the
Yards and Courts Requirements,
where a 10' porch projection is proposed and no open porches or porticos shall project more than 6' and
do not aggregate a vertical area in
any story more than 20% of the area
of the facade in that story as stated in Section 357.13(b)(4) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-6: 5109 Memphis
Avenue (Ward 16)
Michael Haviaras, owner, appeals
to construct a 20' x 31' one-story
addition to an existing 31' x 75'
one-story diner and change the use
from storage to a restaurant all situated on a 74' x 150' parcel located in a Local Retail Business District on the south side of Memphis
Avenue at 5109 Memphis Avenue;
said construction and change of
use being contrary to the Specific
Use
Regulations
of
Section
3437.08(a), where trash areas shall
be screened with opaque fencing
not lower than the height of the
refuse container and the proposed
screening is partly opaque and
partly chain link fencing and contrary to the Off-Street Parking and
Loading Requirements of Section
349.04(f), where 16 parking spaces
are required and 12 are proposed
and contrary to the Landscaping
and Screening Requirements of Section 352.09, where an 8' wide transition strip is required at the rear
of the property where the property
in question abuts a One-Family District and none is proposed and Section 352.10, where a 6' landscaping
strip is required along Memphis
and West 52nd Street and a 3' strip
is proposed along Memphis and a
1' strip is proposed along West
52nd Street and contrary to the
Yards and Courts Requirements,
where 4 parking spaces in the front
of the lot are within the setback
area and a 1' front yard setback is
proposed and a 20' front yard setback is required as stated in Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2003
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
13, 2003, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:

42

Calendar No. 02-365: 3824 Martin
Luther King Drive
First Greater New Zion Missionary
Baptist Church appealed to construct a 5,770 sq. ft. one-story, 28'
high masonry sanctuary on a parcel
in a General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 02-369: 4147 Pearl Road
Nunzio Marzano appealed to construct as 30' x 32' one-story addition to a cabinet shop on a 57' x
270' parcel in a Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 02-370: 2123 West 7th
Street
Timothy McBride appealed to renovate the interior and exterior of an
18' x 57' single family house and
convert the attic to a master bedroom in a Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-371: 4500 Lee Road
4500 Ltd. appealed to add barbed
wire to an existing fence on the east
and south of a parcel in a SemiIndustry District; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 02-372: 1917 West 25th
Street
Tony Iwais appealed to change
the use of the first floor of a twostory building into a restaurant in
a General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 02-194: 2097 West 28th
Street
R. Scott Neiswander appealed to
construct a 27' x 32' three-story,
frame one family house on a 32' x
59' parcel in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-195: 2712 Chatham
Avenue
R. Scott Neiswander appealed to
construct a 27' x 32' three-story,
frame one family house on a 32' x
59' parcel in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-351:
6830 Beaver
Avenue
Joseph Cooper appealed to establish use of a one-story masonry
garage as an auto repair garage on
a 105' x 403' parcel in a Semi-Industry District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 02-366: 3304 a.k.a. 3316
East 126th Street
Mt. Pleasant Church of God appealed to construct a parking lot on
a parcel located in a Two-Family
District.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 02-355: 7512 Broadway
Avenue
Chester Partika appealed to establish use of a 93' x 227' parcel as a
used car lot and construct a 30' x
39'
one-story
office
and
repair
garage building on a 99' x 230' parcel in a Semi-Industry District.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 02-367: 4243 Fulton
Road postponed to February 10,
2003.

The City Record

January 15, 2003
Calendar No. 02-312: 1891-1905 East
93rd Street postponed to January
27, 2003.
On Monday, January 13, 2003, in
Executive Session:
The
following
appeals
were
heard by the Board on Monday,
January 6, 2003, and said decisions
were adopted and approved in
Executive Session on Monday, January 13, 2003:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 02-358: 9719 a.k.a. 9721
Ramona Boulevard
Damascus
Missionary
Baptist
Church appealed to construct a 15
space asphalt parking lot on a 100'
x 150' parcel in a B1 Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 02-363: 1414 East 115th
Street
Luther Pettit appealed to install
154 linear feet of 5' high chain link
fencing around the perimeter of a
44' x 110' corner parcel in a Local
Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 02-364: 2197 Columbus
Road
Niagara Homes Ltd. appealed to
construct a 16' x 16' third floor
dormer to the rear of a two-story,
one family house on a 22' x 135'
parcel in a Semi-Industry District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 02-353: 3441 West 45th
Street
Sidney Small appealed to change
the use of two dwelling unit house
to a four dwelling unit house in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-360: 14201-05 Harvard Avenue
Eleare Kinney appealed to change
the use of a two-story store building
into a night club in a General Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 02-361: Appeal of Marc
Batulewick 18415 Melville Road
Marc Batulewick appealed from a
Violation Notice issued by the Division
of
Building
and
Housing
regarding Access and Maintenance
of Off-Street Parking Space Requirements.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall,
in
accordance
with
the
appended schedule, and will be
opened and read in Room 128, City
Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations
made
on
these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2003

15
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2003
Maintenance and Repair of Overhead Doors, for Various Divisions, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 230802, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 9,
2002.
Window Washing Services, for Various
Divisions,
Department
of
Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2306-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 9, 2002.
Commercial Gases, for Various Divisions, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 230702, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 9,
2002.
Baldwin
Chemical/Administration
Project No. 305, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1975-02, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, December 23, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING TUESDAY, JANUARY
21, 2003 AT 1:00 P.M. IN PUBLIC
UTILITIES
AUDITORIUM,
LOCATED
AT
1201
LAKESIDE
AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
IN
THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
January 8, 2003 and January 15, 2003
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2003
Fertilizers, Pesticides & Grass Seeds
for Golf Courses, for the Division
of
Recreation,
Department
of
Parks, Recreation & Properties, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 81-01,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, April 9, 2001.
January 15, 2003 and January 22, 2003
THURSDAY, JANUARY 30, 2003
Aviation Maintenance, for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2327-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 16, 2002.

Rehabilitation of Ramp Around Concourse C, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
2374-02 pending.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
&
OEO
MATCHMAKER SESSION IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE PREBID MEETING, FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2003 AT 9:30 A.M. AT
CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, ANALEX
BUILDING AUDITORIUM, LOCATED
AT
19501
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE OF THREE HUNDRED ($300.00) IN THE FORM
OF
A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER.

Treated Rock Salt, for the Division
of Streets, Department of Public
Service, as authorized by Ordinance Nos. 1374-02 and 1938-02,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, August 14, 2002 and
October 7, 2002, respectively.

January 8, 2003 and January 15, 2003

January 15, 2003 and January 22, 2003

43

January 15, 2003 and January 22, 2003
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2003
Liquid De-Icer, for the Division of
Streets, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
Nos. 1374-02 and 1938-02, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, August 14, 2002 and October
7, 2002, respectively.

The City Record

16

January 15, 2003

Certified MBEs and FBE
Reporting Period: Fourth Quarter, 2002
Pursuant to Chapter 187 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, Ohio, listed below are the firms that have
been certified as Minority Business Enterprises (MBEs) and Female Business Enterprises (FBEs) by the Mayor’s Office
of Equal Opportunity during the Fourth Quarter of 2002.
Company

MBE/FBE

Certdate

Aamco Transmissions

FBE 10/22/2002

Advanced Federated Protection

MBE

Alpha Omega Landscape & Snowplow, Inc.

FBE 11/27/2002

Aries Distribution

FBE

12/9/2002

ASC Group, Inc.

FBE

11/7/2002

Ballast Construction, d.b.a. Ballast Fence
Bay-West Electric Co., Inc.
Bezalel Co., Ltd.

FBE 11/15/2002
FBE 10/24/2002
MBE 10/2/2002

Brown, Flynn Communications, Ltd.

FBE 12/13/2002

Builders Glass and Door Corp.

MBE

11/6/2002

C.J. Industrial Supply, Inc.

FBE

10/2/2002

Cavalier Construction & Industrial Corp.

MBE

12/9/2002

Centralian Consulting Services

11/5/2002

MBE/FBE 11/18/2002

Class Construction, Inc.
Cleveland Granite & Marble Co.

FBE 12/17/2002
FBE 11/12/2002

Cleveland Mechanical Group, Inc.

MBE

10/2/2002

Coleman Development, Inc.

MBE

12/9/2002

Corporate Choice Staffing Services, Inc. MBE/FBE 12/30/2002
Creative Works, Inc.

FBE 11/13/2002

Customized Solutions, Inc.

FBE 10/25/2002

CYA Plumbing, Inc.
Dan Platt Draperies, Inc.

FBE 12/17/2002
FBE 12/27/2002

DAR Public Relations, Inc.

Datsmarts

MBE/FBE 11/13/2002

FBE 10/30/2002

Dentz Painting, Inc.
FBE
Devon Contracting, Inc. dba Burnley Group MBE

12/9/2002
12/9/2002

Dobb, Inc.
Dunham & Dunham’s Technologies

MBE 11/6/2002
MBE 10/25/2002

Dunlop Industries, Inc.
East Erie Enterprise, LLC

FBE 12/22/2002
MBE 12/2/2002

Epstein Design Partners, Inc.

FBE 12/17/2002

44

Description

Repair transmissions & drivelie (ales, cv boots,
mounts, etc.) including 4wds, clutches, transfer
cases for domestic & foreign cars, light trucks,
vans for both automatic & standard shift vehicles
Installation of alarm & fire systems; closed
circuit TV, card access, sprinkler systems
Complete landscape services, site work including
backhoe work
Distributor: janitorial supplies including paper
products
Cultural resource surveys including archaeology
architectural history; also, ecological and wetland
surveys
Fencing contractor
Electrical contractor
General contractor specializing in rehab and
renovations of residential properties
Strategic marketing communications specializing
in community relations management
Installation, service, repair and maintenance of
glass and doors
Industrial supplies: i.e., hardware, fasteners,
tools, pipe and fittings, garden, plumbing,
abrasives, etc.
Packaging, clean-up, transportation & disposal of
non-hazardous oil & grease/debris, hazardous
training & management plan, report preparation;
general contractor specializing in landscape,
masonry, drywall, carpentry, concrete laying
Organizational planning, training services,
internet/intranet services
Painting Contractor
Custom stone fabrication; wholesale nature stone
products
HVAC contractor and plumber, commercial
residential
Mechanical dismantling and interior wrecking
services
Office support staffing specializing in direct
hire; also, bi-lingual
Marketing consultant, including communications;
events planning & implementation
Computerized accounting software with support
services
Plumbing contractor
Custom design window treatments, residential &
commercial
Public relations, marketing, communications,
media relations, advertising, training seminars,
special events management and promotions
Web development services, database
development, software training
Painting Contractor
Concrete flatwork, formwork, and restoration;
construction site clean-up
Elderly and disabled transportation service
Residential telecommunications including
satellites and dish networking programming;
installation including poles in concrete base
Steel erection
Consultant: Public & private construction,
business, political
Graphic design

The City Record

January 15, 2003
ETNA Parking

MBE 10/25/2002

GAW Enterprises, Ltd.
Gayle’s Welding & Fabrication Company
Graddic Company, The

MBE 10/21/2002
MBE 10/30/2002
MBE 12/2/2002

Group Builders, Inc.

MBE

Hammond Corporation

12/9/2002

MBE/FBE 12/31/2002

Harry’s Painting A Contracting

MBE

10/2/2002

HCI, Inc.

MBE 11/11/2002

Institute of Technology Consulting, Inc., TheFBE 12/18/2002

Interconnect Cabling Network Services, Inc. FBE

10/3/2002

Italia Plumbing, Inc.

11/8/2002

FBE

J & H Construction Company

MBE/FBE 12/11/2002

J.B. Neal Associates

MBE/FBE 10/22/2002

Janitorial Services, Inc.

MBE 10/31/2002

Jay’s Boom Trucking
Johmyell Contractors, Inc.
K.L.E. Construction Company

MBE 11/18/2002
MBE/FBE 12/9/2002
MBE 11/1/2002

L.M.R. Construction Co., Inc.
L.T. Davis and Associates, Inc.
LDW Construction Company

FBE 12/7/2002
MBE 10/14/2002
MBE/FBE 12/31/2002

Lee Marie’s Plastering Company

Lee Infrastructure Restoration, Inc.

MBE 11/11/2002

MBE/FBE

12/7/2002

Lott Construction Company, Inc.

MBE

12/9/2002

MCGIX Corporation

MBE 10/30/2002

MCM Company, Inc.

FBE 11/12/2002

Micro Plus

MBE 12/10/2002

Minority Electric Company
Montalvo, Inc.

MBE/FBE 10/2/2002
MBE 12/11/2002

Nancy Devins Yetman, Inc. dba Creative Cater FBE 11/12/2002
New Concepts Consulting, Inc.
MBE/FBE 12/9/2002

New Look Paving & Sealcoating, Inc.

MBE

10/2/2002

Nowak Mechanical Services, Inc.

FBE 12/14/2002

45

17

Provide exclusive right, privilege & obligation of
administrative, marketing and operational
services of garage parking and surface lots
Trucking, snow plowing, landscaping
Certified welder and steel fabrication
General contractor specializing in construction &
project management, rehab & remodeling, new
construction, specification writing
General contractor specializing in masonry,
carpentry and painting
Mechanical contractor: HVAC, plumbing and
process piping
Painting contractor for industrial, commercial,
residential, & rental properties
General contractor specializing in commercial and
industrial building renovations
Telecommunications consulting, management &
education services, telephone courtesy courses,
long distance services
Installation of telecommunication networks:
LAN, WAN, WIN; design & consulting of
networks, supply network hardware
Plumbing contractor: supply, install, maintenance
repair; back flow inspections
General contractor specializing in building
restoration, masonry including footers, interior
demolition, excavation, power cleaning
Consultant: employee relations, workforce
education
Janitorial services: cleaning of walls, windows,
carpet, light fixtures; building maintenance
Boom trucking and material handling
General contractor
General contractor specializing in installation of
reinforcement steel, welding & ornamental iron
work; concrete work
Masonry contractor
Real estate appraiser
General contractor specializing in clean-outs,
janitorial, removal of defective paint, installation
of chain link fences
Plasterer Contractor specializing in lath,
backerboard, plastering, wood & metal studs,
exterior drivit, senergy & all types of stucco
Infrastructure rehab including manholes, storage
tanks, flooring, walls, highways; materials for
casting, rings, risers
General contractor specializing in excavation,
underground utilities, bridges, water mains,
culvert, water & sewer construction
Management consulting and information
technology services
General contractor, constructment management,
project management services
Supplier: computer hardware, software,
peripherals (printers, modems, monitors,
diskettes)
Electrical contractor
General contractor specializing in interior &
exterior improvements and renovations;
residential,& commercial; supplier: plumbing,
mechanical, interior finishes, construction
materials
Catering services
Customized software, database design
development, network installation & support, web
page dev., client server/mainframe placement.
Software training; video production, editing
General contractor specializing in asphalt,
concrete and sealcoating
HVAC contractor including sprinkler & fire
protection, boilers, hydronics & temp controls,
service, install, repair

The City Record

18
Outside In, Inc., The

MBE 10/18/2002

Pneumatic Specialties, Inc.

FBE 11/18/2002

Polytech, Inc.

MBE 10/10/2002

Post Painting, Inc.
Precious Communications, Inc.

FBE 10/23/2002
MBE 12/9/2002

Precision Engineering & Contracting, Inc.

MBE 11/11/2002

Premium Technical Services

MBE

12/9/2002

MBE/FBE

12/9/2002

Prime Engineering & Architecture, Inc.

Pyramid Cleaning Group, Inc., The
Quality Ribbons and Supplies Co.
Quick Employment

MBE 11/18/2002
FBE 10/21/2002
MBE/FBE 11/12/2002

R. Heard Painting
Ralph C. Tyler, P.E., P.S., Ltd.

MBE
MBE

11/7/2002
12/9/2002

Ramsay Construction Corporation

MBE

10/2/2002

Relocation Specialists, Inc.

FBE 12/25/2002

Ridge Painting Company, Inc.

FBE 11/22/2002

Rittman Inc. dba Mull Iron

MBE 11/14/2002

RMC, Inc.

MBE

12/9/2002

Rockport Construction Materials

FBE

11/6/2002

Roger’s Towing, Inc.
Roman Floors
S & B Floor Covering, Inc.

FBE 11/25/2002
MBE/FBE 10/10/2002
MBE

12/9/2002

September & Associates
FBE 12/24/2002
Smart Solutions dba Microage Computer Store MBE 12/9/2002
Star Beverage Corp.

MBE

Suburban Janitorial Service, Inc.
Teamor & Associates
Texcel, Incorporated

FBE 10/24/2002
MBE 12/9/2002
MBE 12/9/2002

Thermo-Tec Insulation, Inc.
Thomas Bros. Landscaping, Inc.
Top Quality Cleaning
U.S. Utility Contractor Co., Inc.

FBE 11/12/2002
MBE 11/21/2002
FBE 12/27/2002
FBE 11/6/2002

United International Consultants, Inc.

MBE 10/23/2002

United Ready Mix
Wester Communications Group

10/9/2002

MBE 10/22/2002
MBE/FBE 11/27/2002

46

January 15, 2003

Interior and exterior plantscaping. Landscape
architectural services: planning & urban design,
site, park, recreational and transportation design,
environmental designs and studies
Air dryers, air compressors, fittings, tubing for
pressurization of cables within the
telecommunications industry
Engineering: mechanical, electrical, structural,
environmental, transportation and civil
engineering; consulting architectural, planning and
construction management
Commercial painting and wallcovering contractor
Voice & data communications; electronic business
systems, PBX & paging systems, network design,
voice mail, cellular & pay phones, fiber optics
General contractor specializing in site work,
construction management, engineering services
Video inspection of sewer systems; inspection of
construction projects; plan layouts with use of
computers
Architectural & engineering services: civil,
structural, geotechnical, material testing and site
development
Mobile pressure wash and steam cleaning
Office and computer supplies, equipment;
janitorial supplies
Employment services: skilled labor, general labor,
medical, office, etc.; pre-employment screening
Painter: exterior and interior
Engineering: civil, electrical, mechanical, rail
transit, raiload, structural, transportation;
architectural design; surveying and project
management
General contractor specializing in rehab,
construction management and carpentry
Office and industrial relocation, management
consulting
Paint contractor: interior, exterior, commercial,
industrial, and residential
Fabrication & erection of structural, ornamental
& misc. steel products
Cleaning/cement mortar lining of distribution
water mains; repair, replace and plug of water
mains & appurtenances; general contractor
specializing in carpentry, millwork, excavation,
backfill, restoration, concrete, repave,
restoration & removal
General contractor specializing in rigid paving,
structural concrete, underground utility work;
recycled materials: sand, soil, etc.
Towing of automobiles and trucks
Furnish and install carpet, tile and other floor
coverings, carpet cleaning
Supplier: supply and install carpet, O.C.T.
ceramic tile, painting and wall covering
Commercial and residential real estate appraising
Computer store: personal computers, networks,
peripherals, and support services
Manufacture, market, ship and sell carbonated
and non-carbonated soft drinks
Janitorial and cleaning services
Law firm
Computer system integration and services
including consulting
Insulation contractor
Landscaping and snowplowing
Janitorial services
Electrical line distribution and construction;
telephone line construction and distribution
Sanitary & environmental engineering consulting
services; operation and maintenance manuals
preparation
Manufacture and distribute ready mix concrete
Public relations

January 15, 2003
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 15-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution requesting the County Auditor to make tax
advances during the year 2003,
under Section 321.34 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the County Auditor is requested to draw, and the
County Treasurer is requested to
pay, on draft or drafts made payable
to the Treasury of the City of Cleveland, any money that may be in the
County Treasury from time to time
during the year 2003 and credited to
the account of the City of Cleveland
and lawfully applicable to the purpose of the 2003 fiscal year. The
payments will be made on the
request of the Director of Finance
or the Mayor of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a certified
copy of this resolution to the Auditor of Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 6, 2003.
Effective January 9, 2003.

Res. No. 16-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 2609
East 110th Street and repealing Resolution No. 1156-02, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit to 2609 East 110th
Street by Resolution No. 1156-02
adopted by the Council on June 3,
2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Patricia J. Britt and Applicant,
Clarmada C. Hodge, DBA East 110th
Drive Thru, 2609 East 110th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 3884165, a copy of which is
in the file for this address with the
City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 2609 East 110th Street be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1156-02, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 6, 2003.
Effective January 9, 2003.

Res. No. 17-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit at 8302 Cedar
Avenue, 1st Floor and repealing
Resolution No. 1607-02, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected
to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit to 8302 Cedar Avenue, 1st
Floor by Resolution No. 1607-02
adopted by the Council on August
14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Patricia J. Britt and Applicant,
Devious McDade, DBA DE & TS
Maxwell Cutrate, 8302 Cedar Avenue, 1st Floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 2068613, a copy
of which is in the file for this
address with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit to
8302 Cedar Avenue, 1st Floor be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1607-02, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 6, 2003.
Effective January 9, 2003.

47

19
Res. No. 18-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit at
16921 St. Clair Avenue, 1st Floor,
Front Only and repealing Resolution
No. 1675-02, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 16921 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st Floor, Front Only by
Resolution No. 1675-02 adopted by
the Council on August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Michael D. Polensek and Applicant, James D. Sanders, President of
Jason Family, Inc., 16921 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number 4251884, a copy of
which is in the file for this address
with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to 16921 St. Clair Avenue, 1st
Floor, Front Only be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1675-02, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 6, 2003.
Effective January 9, 2003.

Res. No. 19-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 11902
Kinsman Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 1690-02, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 11902 Kinsman Avenue by
Resolution No. 1690-02 adopted by
the Council on August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Zachary Reed and Applicant,
King E. Baker, DBA B & B Drive
Thru Beverage & Food Mart, 11902
Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Permanent Number 03901530010, a copy of which is in the file
for this address with the City Law
Department; and

20
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 11902 Kinsman Avenue be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1690-02, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 6, 2003.
Effective January 9, 2003.

Res. No. 20-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 12301 Imperial Avenue
and repealing Resolution No. 1445-02,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 12301
Imperial Avenue by Resolution No.
1445-02 adopted by the Council on
July 17, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Zachary Reed and Applicant,
Hiam Toyeh Assed, President of
Hiam A. Inc., 12301 Imperial Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 3820139, a copy of which is
in the file for this address with the
City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to 12301 Imperial Avenue be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1445-02, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 6, 2003.
Effective January 9, 2003.

The City Record
Ord. No. 2243-02.
By Council Members Polensek,
Johnson, Gordon, Cimperman and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire property
located at 16300 Lakeshore Boulevard for the purpose of park and
recreational purposes.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized to acquire for the public purpose of park and recreational purposes, the following described property:
Permanent Parcel No. 113-17-011
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Euclid Township Tract No.
16 and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the
Southerly line of Lake Shore Boulevard (80 feet wide distant North 70°
28' 05" East 1366.82 feet therein
from its point of intersection with
the Easterly line of East 156th
Street (60 feet wide);
Thence continuing North 70° 28'
05" East 698.21 feet along said
Southerly line of Lake Shore Boulevard to its point of intersection with
the Easterly line of said Tract No.
16;
Thence South 0° 28' 45" West
374.62 feet along said Easterly line
of Tract No. 16 to a point;
Thence South 70° 28' 05" West
569.88 feet to a point;
Thence North 19° 31' 55" West
352.00 feet to the place of beginning,
according to a survey by Robert H.
Krause, Sr. Registered Ohio Surveyor No. 2885, July 10, 1967, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
The consideration to be paid for
the property shall not exceed its
appraised value.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City all documents necessary to
acquire the property and to employ
and pay all fees for title companies,
surveys, escrows, appraiser, and all
other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property.
Section 3. That the costs of the
improvement, services and property
acquisition contemplated shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 340 and
20 SF 377.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

48

January 15, 2003
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 6, 2003.
Effective January 9, 2003.

Ord. No. 2450-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into amendments to contracts with
SBC Global Services, Inc. for Centrex telephone services.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 2152-02,
passed December 9, 2002, authorized
the Director of Finance to employ
one or more consultants to conduct
a City-wide data and voice systems
network assessment; to develop a
City-wide data and voice system
strategic plan; and to provide data
and voice system integration services, including but not limited to
program implementation and management, hardware and software
configuration and programming services; and
Whereas, until completion of the
assessment, development of a data
and voice strategic plan and full
implementation
of
the
strategic
plan, it is necessary to renew and
extend certain agreements with SBC
Global
Services,
Inc.
(formerly
known as Ameritech Information
Systems) to continue and maintain
uninterrupted Centrex telephone services; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is determined
that the within service is non-competitive and cannot be secured from
any source other than SBC Global
Services, Inc. (formerly known as
Ameritech
Information
Systems).
Therefore, the Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into amendments to the various agreements
with SBC Global Services, Inc. for
Centrex telephone services, to renew
and extend the agreements, upon
the existing terms and conditions,
until January 5, 2004 and for such
additional period as necessary to
continue and maintain uninterrupted Centrex service until full implementation of the Citywide data and
voice system strategic plan.
Section 2. That the cost of the
amendments authorized by this ordinance shall be paid from Fund No.
70 SF 101, and from the fund or
funds appropriated for this purpose
in budget year 2003, Request No.
100349.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 6, 2003.
Effective January 9, 2003.

The City Record

January 15, 2003
Ord. No. 12-03.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2399-02,
passed December 9, 2002 as it pertains to the Spanish American Committee sponsoring the Three Kings
Day Program through the use of
Ward
14
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2399-02, passed December
9, 2002 is hereby amended to read
respectively as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Spanish American Committee for the Three Kings Day Program effective from December 5,
2001 to January 21, 2003 for the public purpose of providing food to
needy families and underprivileged
children through the use of Ward 14
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2399-02, passed December
9, 2002 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 6, 2003.
Effective January 9, 2003.

Ord. No. 13-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 9. (Tyronne Battle).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons to engage in peddling outside
of the Central Business district,
and has determined that it is in the
public interest to allow each of
said persons to peddle in Ward 9;
and

21
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents,
as
required
by,
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances
to allow each persons named below
to engage in peddling in the public rights of way of Ward 9:
Tyronne Battle at the southwest
corner of Cornell Road and Dorm
Court.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 6, 2003.
Effective January 9, 2003.

Ord. No. 14-03.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 17 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, as amended by Ordinance No. 2448-02, passed December 16, 2002, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 17 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, as amended by Ordinance No. 2448-02,
passed December 16, 2002, is amended to read as follows:
Section 17. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:
Minimum

Maximum

1.

Auto Body Repair Unit Leader.............................................

$12.88

$20.59

2.

Auto Body Repair Worker......................................................

$15.73

$18.25

3.

Automobile Repair Helper.......................................................

$10.13

$14.39

4.

Automobile Repair Worker.....................................................

$12.60

$18.09

5.

Automobile Repairman Unit Leader....................................

$17.78

$21.95

6.

Blacksmith.....................................................................................

$15.79

$21.38

7.

Garage Worker............................................................................

$12.42

$15.38

8.

Heavy Duty Mechanic...............................................................

$15.75

$21.67
$26.87

9.

Heavy Duty Unit Leader.........................................................

$23.85

10.

Small Equipment Repair Worker.........................................

$12.26

$16.64

11.

Tire Repair Worker...................................................................

$14.08

$16.49

12.

Welder.............................................................................................

$18.36

$21.08

Section 2. That existing Section 17 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, as amended by Ordinance No.
2448-02, passed December 16, 2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed January 6, 2003.
Effective January 9, 2003.

49

The City Record

22
REPRINT
Ord. No. 1952-02.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Juno Jog on October
12, 2002, sponsored by the Cleveland
Health Museum.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Juno Jog, sponsored by Cleveland Health Museum,
on October 12, 2002, beginning at
East 89th and Euclid, Euclid to East
101st, East 101st to Mt. Sinai Drive,
Mt. Sinai Drive to MLK, MLK to
Lagoon (on bike path), return same
route, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary

in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 30, 2002.
Effective October 7, 2002.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, January 13, 2003
9:30 A.M.
Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: Present:

January 15, 2003
Lewis, Chair; Conwell, Vice
Reed,
Cintron,
Polensek,
Authorized Absence: Johnson.

Chair;
Coats.

2:00 P.M.
Finance Committee: Present: Jackson, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Westbrook, Gordon, Reed, White,
O’Malley, Coats, Britt, Brady, Scott.
Tuesday, January 14, 2003
9:30 A.M.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Gordon,
Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair; Reed,
Scott, Cintron, Zone, Lewis, Jones,
Coats.
Wednesday, January 15, 2003
10:00 A.M.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Reed, Chair, Britt, Vice Chair; Coats,
Brady, Jones, Zone, White, Cimperman, Conwell.
1:30 P.M.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee:
Present:
Cimperman,
Chair;
Rybka, Vice Chair; O’Malley, Conwell, Scott, Lewis, Westbrook.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Vending machines — concession agreements — City parks and various City-owned and
City-leased buildings (O 39-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Appreciation
Salwan, Lillian (R 70-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Appropriations
Community Development Department — administrative expenses — Appropriating Community
Development Block Grant funds (O 2110-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T

Board of Control — Barkwill Park
Site improvements — amend BOC Res. 790-02 — Division of Research, Planning and
Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 7-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Annual Budget, 2003- Rentals and Landing Fee Rates — Lease with Original Scheduled
Airlines and Additional Scheduled Airlines — effective 1/1/03 (BOC Res. 3-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Marvin Avenue (Ward 14) — various parcels — to Civic Builders LLC per Ord. 2244-02
(BOC Res. 9-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
York Avenue (Ward 14) — PPN 007-12-033/071 — to Norwood Collins and Vickie Collins
(BOC Res. 10-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41

50

January 15, 2003

The City Record

23

Board of Control — Finance Department
Sale of scrap, personal property and by-products — Report for December 2002 — Division
of Purchases and Supplies (BOC Res. 1-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Board of Control — Health Division
Burials of indigent dead — contract per Ord. 680-02 to Memorial Services Inc.,
d.b.a. F.J. Corrigan Funeral Services — Dept. of Public Health
(BOC Res. 5-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Housing Advisory Board
Wilcox, Michael E. — 3238 East 140th Street — mortgage loan / grant assistance
(BOC Res. 11-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41

Board of Control — Kenneth L. Johnson Recreation Center
Aquatic Playground and site improvements — contract per Ord. 930-2000, 1594-2000, 1114-02
to Nerone & Sons — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 8-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Marvin Avenue (Ward 14) — various parcels — to Civic Builders LLC per Ord. 2244-02
(BOC Res. 9-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
York Avenue (Ward 14) — PPN 007-12-033/071 — to Norwood Collins and Vickie Collins
(BOC Res. 10-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 14)
Marvin Avenue (Ward 14) — various parcels — to Civic Builders LLC per Ord. 2244-02
(BOC Res. 9-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
York Avenue (Ward 14) — PPN 007-12-033/071 — to Norwood Collins and Vickie Collins
(BOC Res. 10-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41

Board of Control — Leases
Annual Budget, 2003- Rentals and Landing Fee Rates — Lease with Original Scheduled
Airlines and Additional Scheduled Airlines — effective 1/1/03
(BOC Res. 3-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Automated fuel dispensing system upgrade — contract per Ord. 1424-02 to E.J. Ward, Inc.
- Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 4-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Barkwill Park site improvements — amend BOC Res. 790-02 — Division of Research, Planning
and Development (BOC Res. 7-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Kenneth L. Johnson Aquatic Playground and site improvements — contract per Ord. 930-2000,
1594-2000, 1114-02 to Nerone & Sons — Division of Research, Planning and Development
(BOC Res. 8-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Police Division
Insurance, aviation — contract per Ord. 2172-02 to Aon Risk Services, Inc. of Ohio
- Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 12-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Meals for prisoners — contract per Ord. 1102-02 to Tom Paige Catering Company — Dept. of
Public Safety (BOC Res. 6-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Annual Budget, 2003- Rentals and Landing Fee Rates — Lease with Original Scheduled
Airlines and Additional Scheduled Airlines — effective 1/1/03
(BOC Res. 3-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

51

The City Record

24

January 15, 2003

Board of Control — Public Health Department
Burials of indigent dead — contract per Ord. 680-02 to Memorial Services Inc.,
d.b.a. F.J. Corrigan Funeral Services — Division of Health
(BOC Res. 5-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Barkwill Park site improvements — amend BOC Res. 790-02 — Division of Research, Planning
and Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 7-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Kenneth L. Johnson Aquatic Playground and site improvements — contract per Ord. 930-2000,
1594-2000, 1114-02 to Nerone & Sons — Division of Research, Planning and
Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 8-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Insurance, aviation — contract per Ord. 2172-02 to Aon Risk Services, Inc. of Ohio —
Division of Police (BOC Res. 12-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Meals for prisoners — contract per Ord. 1102-02 to Tom Paige Catering Company — Division
of Police (BOC Res. 6-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Automated fuel dispensing system upgrade — contract per Ord. 1424-02 to E.J. Ward, Inc. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 4-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Card access and electronic security systems maintenance — per Ord. 1388-2000 — all bids
rejected — Division of Water (BOC Res. 2-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap, personal property and by-products — Report for December 2002 — Dept. of
Finance (BOC Res. 1-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Burials of indigent dead — contract per Ord. 680-02 to Memorial Services Inc.,
d.b.a. F.J. Corrigan Funeral Services — Division of Health, Dept. of Public Health
(BOC Res. 5-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Insurance, aviation — contract per Ord. 2172-02 to Aon Risk Services, Inc. of Ohio —
Division of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 12-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Meals for prisoners — contract per Ord. 1102-02 to Tom Paige Catering Company — Division
of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 6-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Research, Planning and Development Division
Barkwill Park site improvements — amend BOC Res. 790-02 — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (BOC Res. 7-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Kenneth L. Johnson Aquatic Playground and site improvements — contract per Ord. 930-2000,
1594-2000, 1114-02 to Nerone & Sons — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 8-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Automated fuel dispensing system upgrade — contract per Ord. 1424-02 to E.J. Ward, Inc. —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 4-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Board of Control — Water Division
Card access and electronic security systems maintenance — per Ord. 1388-2000 — all bids
rejected — Dept. of Public Utilties (BOC Res. 2-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

52

January 15, 2003

The City Record

25

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Beaver Avenue, 6830, (Ward 5) – Joseph Cooper, owner — appeal heard on 1/13/03
(Cal. 02-351). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Broadway Avenue, 7512, (Ward 12) – Chester Partika, owner — appeal withdrawn on 1/13/03
(Cal. 02-355) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Chatham Avenue, 2712, (Ward 14) – R. Scott Neiswander, owner appeal heard on 1/13/03
(Cal. 02-195). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Columbus Road, 2197, (Ward 14) – Niagra Homes, Ltd., owner c/o Mike McBride, agent —
appeal granted and adopted on 1/13/03 (Cal. 02-364) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
East 115th Street, 1414, (Ward 9) – Luther Pettit, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/13/03 (Cal. 02-363). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
East 126th Street, 3304, (a.k.a. 3316 East 126th Street), (Ward 4) – Mt. Pleasant Church
of God, owner c/o Brother Moore — appeal heard on 1/13/03
(Cal. 02-366). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
East 93rd Street, 1891-1905, (Ward 7) – Kinder Care Learning Centers, owners
c/o Emos Curtis, agent — appeal postponed to 1/27/03 on 1/13/03
(Cal. 02-312). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Fulton Road, 4243, (Ward 15) – Memphis fulton Associates Limited Partnership, owner c/o
Paran Management and Larry Wolf, agents — appeal postponed to 2/10/03 on
1/13/03 (Cal. 02-367). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Harvard Avenue, 14201-05, (Ward 1) – Eleare Kinney, owner, and Claude Carson, agent —
appeal denied and adopted on 1/13/03 (Cal. 02-360) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Lee Road, 4500, (Ward 1) – 4500 Ltd., owner c/o Arthur Kopittke — appeal heard on 1/13/03
(Cal. 02-371). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Martin Luther King Drive, 3824, (Ward 2) – First Greater New Zion Missionary Baptist
Church, owner c/o Reverend Albert Maiden — appeal heard on 1/13/03
(Cal. 02-365). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Melville Road, 18415, (Ward 11) – Marc Batulewick, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
1/13/03 (Cal. 02-361). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Pearl Road, 4147, (Ward 15) – Nunzio Marzano, owner — appeal heard on 1/13/03
(Cal. 02-369) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Ramona Boulevard, 9719, (Ward 4) – Damascus Missionary Baptist Church, owner c/o Curtis
Williams — appeal granted and adopted on 1/13/03
(Cal. 02-358). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
West 25th Street, 1917, (Ward 14) – Tony Iwais, owner — appeal heard on 1/13/03
(Cal. 02-372) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
West 28th Street, 2097, (Ward 14) – R. Scott Neiswander, owner appeal heard on 1/13/03
(Cal. 02-194). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
West 45th Street, 3441, (Ward 14) – Sidney Small, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
1/13/03 (Cal. 02-353). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
West 7th Street, 2123, (Ward 13) – Timothy McBride, owner — appeal heard on 1/13/03
(Cal. 02-370) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
McGowan Avenue, 11805, (Ward 20) – Henry Wiseman, owner — appeal to be heard on 1/27/03
(Cal. 03-5). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Memphis Avenue, 5109, (Ward 16) – Michael Haviaras, owner — appeal to be heard on 1/27/03
(Cal. 03-6). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
West 136th Street, 3895, (Ward 20) – Michael A. Sopko, owner — appeal to be heard
on 1/27/03 (Cal. 02-357) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42

Bonds
Subordinated airport revenue — $48,500,000, — issuance and sale — improve the airport
system (O 8-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Burke Lakefront Airport
Grand Prix auto races — Lease By Way of Concession — IMG Motorsports Cleveland, Inc.
(O 2157-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Marketing and advertising services, materials — professional services contracts —
Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke Lakefront Airports
(O 2383-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T

53

The City Record

26

January 15, 2003

City of Cleveland Bids
Aviation maintenance — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per Ord.
2327-02 — bid due January 30, 2003 (advertised 1/15/2003 and 1/22/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Baldwin Chemical / Administration Project No. 305 — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water — per Ord. 1975-02 — bid due February 12, 2003
(advertised 1/8/2003 and 1/15/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Commercial gases — Department of Finance — per Ord. 2307-02 — bid due February 12, 2003
(advertised 1/8/2003 and 1/15/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Concourse C ramp rehabilitation — Department of Port Control — Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport — per Ord. 2374-02 — bid due February
7, 2003 (advertised 1/8/2003 and 1/15/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Fertilizers, pesticides and grass seed for golf courses — Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties — Division of Recreation — per Ord. 81-01 — bid due January 29, 2003
(advertised 1/15/2003 and 1/22/2003). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Liquid deicer — Department of Public Service — Division of Streets — per Ord. 1374-02 and
1938-02 — bid due February 13, 2003 (advertised 1/15/2003 and 1/22/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Overhead door repair — Department of Finance — per Ord. 2308-02 — bid due February 12, 2003
(advertised 1/8/2003 and 1/15/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Rock salt, treated — Department of Public Service — Division of Streets — per Ord.
1374-02 and 1938-02 — bid due February 13, 2003 (advertised 1/15/2003 and 1/22/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Window washing services — Department of Finance — per Ord. 2306-02 — bid due February 12, 2003
(advertised 1/8/2003 and 1/15/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43

City Planning Commission
Peddlers and produce dealers — enact Sects. 675A.01 to 675A.11 and 675A.99 — amend Sec.
675.01 (O 926-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Marketing and advertising services, materials — professional services contracts —
Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke Lakefront Airports
(O 2383-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T
Security Directive SD 1542-02-03A — Transportation Security Administration — encourage
— reconsider and review (R 47-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Codified Ordinances
Background checks — coach and/or manager of any program — Division of Recreation — new
Section 133.091 (O 44-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Peddlers and produce dealers — enact Sects. 675A.01 to 675A.11 and 675A.99 — amend Sec.
675.01 (O 926-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T
Predatory lending — amending Sections 659.01 through 659.04, and Section
178.07 (O 45-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

Communications
National City Community Dev. Corp. — 20th Anniversary News Letter (F 48-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Res. No. 191-02 — receipt letter — Congressman Dennis J. Kucinich (F 49-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

Community Development
Administrative expenses — Appropriating Community Development Block Grant
funds (O 2110-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T
E. 80th St. — PPN 127-02-011 — Land Reutilization Program — Shear Service, Inc.
(O 42-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Eleanor B. Rainey Memorial Institute — after school arts education program — Ward
9 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1540-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan — appropriate property — Treatment Area
Block 3, Site B (O 38-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Lakeshore Blvd., 16300 — acquire property — park and recreational purposes
(O 2243-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Metropolitan Strategy Group — contracts — study — foreclosures (O 46-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Miles Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Giltz and Associates, Inc. (O 43-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Spanish American Committee — Three Kings Day Program — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 12-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

54

January 15, 2003

The City Record

27

Community Development Block Grant Program
Community Development Department — administrative expenses — Appropriating Community
Development Block Grant funds (O 2110-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T

Condolences
Donahue, William E. (R 63-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Kaminski, Joseph “Duke” (R 68-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Lewis Polk, Anita (R 65-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Schwertner, Thomas E. (R 67-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Smith Rogers, Louise Hart (R 64-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Warren Hooper, Garfield, Jr. (R 66-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Contracts
Metropolitan Strategy Group — study — foreclosures (O 46-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
SBC Global Services, Inc. — Centrex telephone services — amendments to contracts
— Finance (O 2450-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Trans World Airlines, LLC — Contract No. 28672 — amendment (O 2227-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

County Auditor
Tax advances — year 2003 — request (R 15-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47

Department of Transportation
Security Directive SD 1542-02-03A — Transportation Security Administration — encourage
— reconsider and review (R 47-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Economic Development Department
Empowerment Zone — review the processes and controls — professional consultants
(O 40-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

Empowerment Zone
Empowerment Zone — review the processes and controls — professional consultants
(O 40-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

Finance Department
Compensation — Sects 8, 31 and 37 of Ord. No. 469-02 (O 2470-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
SBC Global Services, Inc. — Centrex telephone services — amendments to contracts
— Finance (O 2450-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Subordinated airport revenue — $48,500,000, — issuance and sale — improve the airport
system (O 8-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Tax advances — year 2003 — request — County Auditor (R 15-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47

Funds
Community Development Department — administrative expenses — Appropriating Community
Development Block Grant funds (O 2110-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T

Health Department
Peddlers and produce dealers — enact Sects. 675A.01 to 675A.11 and 675A.99 — amend Sec.
675.01 (O 926-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T

Land Reutilization Program
E. 80th St. — PPN 127-02-011 — Shear Service, Inc. (O 42-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Miles Ave. — Giltz and Associates, Inc. (O 43-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Lease by Way of Concession
Grand Prix auto races — IMG Motorsports Cleveland, Inc. (O 2157-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

55

The City Record

28

January 15, 2003

Liquor Permits
Cedar Ave., 8302 — objection — withdraw (Ward 6) (R 17-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
E. 105th St., 965 — new (Ward 8) (F 53-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
E. 110th St., 2609 — objection — withdraw (Ward 6) (R 16-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
E. 140th St., 662 — transfer (Ward 10) (F 60-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
E. 49th St., 3291 — transfer (Ward 5) (F 59-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Euclid Ave., 17234 — new (Ward 10) (F 52-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Imperial Ave., 12301 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 20-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Kinsman Ave., 11902 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 19-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Lakewood Hts Blvd, 13501 — new (Ward 19) (F 51-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Lorain Ave., 13027 — new (Ward 20) (F 56-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Payne Ave., 4409 — new (Ward 13) (F 54-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Pearl Rd., 3753 — transfer (Ward 15) (F 58-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Spring Rd., 1503 — new (Ward 15) (F 50-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
St. Clair Ave., 16921 — objection — withdraw (Ward 11) (R 18-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
W. 130th St., 4611 — transfer (Ward 20) (F 57-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
W. Huron St., 230 #72-76 — new (Ward 13) (F 55-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Eleanor B. Rainey Memorial Institute — after school arts education program — Ward
9 (O 1540-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Spanish American Committee — Three Kings Day Program — Ward 14 (O 12-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
511 traveler information system — supporting creation (R 2397-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Parks
Vending machines — concession agreements — City parks and various City-owned and
City-leased buildings (O 39-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Background checks — coach and/or manager of any program — Division of Recreation — new
Section 133.091 (O 44-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Lakeshore Blvd., 16300 — acquire property — park and recreational purposes
(O 2243-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Morgana Park Site Improvements — Contract No. 59152 (F 62-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Vending machines — concession agreements — City parks and various City-owned and
City-leased buildings (O 39-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Peddlers
Battle, Tyronne (Ward 9) (O 13-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Personnel Department
Compensation — amend Sec. 17 of Ord. No. 469—02 (O 14-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Compensation — Sects 8, 31 and 37 of Ord. No. 469-02 (O 2470-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Workforce Development/One-Stop Career — intention to locate — W. 25th Ave. & Clark Area
(R 2336-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Port Control Department
Grand Prix auto races — Lease By Way of Concession — IMG Motorsports Cleveland, Inc.
(O 2157-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Marketing and advertising services, materials — professional services contracts —
Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke Lakefront Airports
(O 2383-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T
Subordinated airport revenue — $48,500,000, — issuance and sale — improve the airport
system (O 8-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Trans World Airlines, LLC — Contract No. 28672 — amendment (O 2227-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

56

January 15, 2003

The City Record

29

Purchases and Supplies Division
Lakeshore Blvd., 16300 — acquire property — park and recreational purposes
(O 2243-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

Races/Walks
Juno Jog — permit — Oct. 12 — Cleveland Health Museum (O 1952-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50-R

Recognition
The Cleveland Orchestra (R 69-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
511 traveler information system — supporting creation (R 2397-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Profiling — opposing — education and training law enforcement officers
(R 41-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Security Directive SD 1542-02-03A — Transportation Security Administration — encourage
— reconsider and review (R 47-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Revenue Bonds
Subordinated airport revenue — $48,500,000, — issuance and sale — improve the airport
system (O 8-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Safety Department
Peddlers and produce dealers — enact Sects. 675A.01 to 675A.11 and 675A.99 — amend Sec.
675.01 (O 926-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T

Salaries
Compensation — amend Sec. 17 of Ord. No. 469—02 (O 14-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Compensation — Sects 8, 31 and 37 of Ord. No. 469-02 (O 2470-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Spanish American Committee
Three Kings Day Program — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 12-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Statement of Work Acceptance
M. DiGioia Co., — Contract No. 59070 A — Department of Public Utilities
(F 61-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Morgana Park Site Improvements — Contract No. 59152 — Parks, Recreation and Properties
(F 62-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Tabled Legislation
Community Development Department — administrative expenses — Appropriating Community
Development Block Grant funds (O 2110-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T
Marketing and advertising services, materials — professional services contracts —
Cleveland Hopkins International and Burke Lakefront Airports
(O 2383-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T
Peddlers and produce dealers — enact Sects. 675A.01 to 675A.11 and 675A.99 — amend Sec.
675.01 (O 926-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39-T

Utilities Department
M. DiGioia Co., — Contract No. 59070 A (F 61-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Ward 02
Miles Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Giltz and Associates, Inc. (O 43-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

57

The City Record

30

January 15, 2003

Ward 03
Imperial Ave., 12301 — objection — withdraw (R 20-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Kinsman Ave., 11902 — objection — withdraw (R 19-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Smith Rogers, Louise Hart — condolence (R 64-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Ward 05
Donahue, William E. — condolence (R 63-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
E. 49th St., 3291 — transfer (F 59-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
E. 80th St. — PPN 127-02-011 — Land Reutilization Program — Shear Service, Inc.
(O 42-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

Ward 06
Cedar Ave., 8302 — objection — withdraw (R 17-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
E. 110th St., 2609 — objection — withdraw (R 16-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Juno Jog — permit — Oct. 12 — Cleveland Health Museum
(O 1952-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50-R

Ward 08
E. 105th St., 965 — new (F 53-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Lewis Polk, Anita — condolence (R 65-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
The Cleveland Orchestra — recognition (R 69-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Ward 09
Battle, Tyronne — peddling (O 13-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Eleanor B. Rainey Memorial Institute — after school arts education program — Ward
9 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1540-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Lewis Polk, Anita — condolence (R 65-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
The Cleveland Orchestra — recognition (R 69-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Ward 10
E. 140th St., 662 — transfer (F 60-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Euclid Ave., 17234 — new (F 52-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

Ward 11
Lakeshore Blvd., 16300 — acquire property — park and recreational purposes
(O 2243-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
St. Clair Ave., 16921 — objection — withdraw (R 18-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Warren Hooper, Garfield, Jr. — condolence (R 66-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Ward 13
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan — appropriate property — Treatment Area
Block 3, Site B (O 38-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Payne Ave., 4409 — new (F 54-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
W. Huron St., 230 #72-76 — new (F 55-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

Ward 14
Spanish American Committee — Three Kings Day Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 12-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Workforce Development/One-Stop Career — intention to locate — W. 25th Ave. & Clark Area
(R 2336-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Ward 15
Pearl Rd., 3753 — transfer (F 58-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Spring Rd., 1503 — new (F 50-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

58

January 15, 2003

The City Record

31

Ward 17
Kaminski, Joseph “Duke” — condolence (R 68-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Schwertner, Thomas E. — condolence (R 67-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

Ward 19
Lakewood Hts Blvd, 13501 — new (F 51-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

Ward 20
Lorain Ave., 13027 — new (F 56-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Salwan, Lillian — appreciation (R 70-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
W. 130th St., 4611 — transfer (F 57-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

59

