The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

October the Twenty-Ninth, Two Thousand and Three

Jane L. Campbell

Containing

PAGE

Mayor

Frank G. Jackson
President of Council

Valarie J. McCall
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
16
16
22
22
23
24
24
25
26
38
38

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Frank G. Jackson
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ...................................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White ..................................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson..................................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott ..............................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell ......................................................774 East 131st Street
Roosevelt Coats.....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka .................................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr. ....................................................3004 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon .................................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley ..........................................6710 Brookside Drive
Matthew Zone......................................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
Dona Brady...........................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Debra M. Janik, Chief of Staff
David M. McGuirk, Executive Assistant
Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant
Craig Tame, Executive Assistant
Henry Guzman, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officer
Lorna Wisham, Chief Public Affairs Officer

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44108
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – James G. Williams, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Gina Routen, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Steven Sims, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Jeffrey D. Johnson, Director; Mayor Jane
L. Campbell, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L.
Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry, Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline
Hardaway, Janet Jankura, Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J.
Livingstone, Margot James Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
William Morrison.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Council President Frank
G. Jackson; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Robert H. Baker, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Christopher Carmody,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F. Denk,
Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E.
P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Subodh Chandra, President;
Finance Director Robert H. Baker, Secretary; Council President Frank G. Jackson.

DEPT. OF LAW – Subodh Chandra, Director, Galen L. Schuerlein, Acting Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100

BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law Director
Subodh Chandra; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.

DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – James S. Higgins, Commissioner, 1404 East 9th Street
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue

BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Utilities
Director Michael G. Konicek; Council President Frank G. Jackson.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael G. Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John C. Mok, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll,Acting Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Dr. Wendy Johnson, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – James A. Draper, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Edward F. Lohn, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Natalie A. Ronayne, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Christopher S. Ronayne, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke, Lawrence A. Lumpkin,
Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small, Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela Caldwell,
Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb,Council Member
Nelson Cintron, Ed Romero.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia
Nolan, David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton, Council Member Merle
Gordon.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Cindy Barber, Vice Chair; Michael Doud,
Doris Honsa, Richard Lenard.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Chairman; Finance
Director Robert H. Baker; Council President Frank G. Jackson; Councilman Dona Brady;
Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman; Donald
Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond Ossovicki, Chief Electrical
Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl S. Bumgarner,
Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V.
Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Paul Volpe, Chair; Ted Sande,
Vice Chair; James Gibans, India Pierce Lee, Robert Madison, Randall B. Shorr, Chris
Ronayne, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Dwayne J. Simpson; Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
Judge C. Ellen Connally
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
Judge Emanuella Groves
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
Judge Joseph J. Zone

Courtroom
13C
15A
15C
12C
12B
14D
13D
14C
14B
13B
13A
14A
12A

Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Kenneth Thomas – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2003

Vol. 90

No. 4690

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

COMMUNICATIONS

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt,
Dolan, Gordon, Reed, Rybka.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

File No. 1177-03-A.
Notice of Public Hearing on Ordinance No. 1177-03 was sent to the following property owners:
Mr. Keving L. Smith
Mr. John Henry Ball, Jr.
Mr. Daniel Canzone
Mr. Robert A. Contorno

VALARIE J. McCALL

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cintron, Jones,
Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka,
Vice
Chairman,
Conwell,
Lewis,
O’Malley, Scott, Westbrook.

File No. 1503-03-A.
Notice of Public Hearing on Ordinance No. 1503-03 was sent to the following property owner:
Bishop Samuel Threats

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, O’Malley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Scott, Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00
vices
Zone,
well,

P.M. — Health & Human SerCommittee: Britt, Chairman;
Vice Chairman; Cintron, ConGordon, Scott, Polensek.

1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Scott, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman;
O’Malley,
Reed,
Sweeney,
Westbrook.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, October 27, 2003
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Cimperman, Cintron, Coats, Conwell,
Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, O’Malley, Polensek,
Reed, Rybka, Scott, Sweeney, Westbrook, White and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Campbell and Chief of Staff Debra M.
Jenik, Directors Chandra, Baker,
Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Draper, N.
Ronayne, Hudecek, Williams, Routen, Fumich, Taylor, Sims, C. Ronayne, Margreat Jackson, Legislative
Affairs Liaison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Missionary
Kathy McNair of Damascus Road
Ministries located at 12905 Lenacrave Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105
in Ward 2. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Lewis, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Cimperman.

2445

File No. 2114-03.
From the Cleveland Theater District — Report of the Cleveland Theater District Development Corporation’s Activities and the Financial
Condition for 2002. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 2115-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 5417300 — Mag Restaurant,
LLC, upper level and patio, 1071
Front Avenue, first floor. (Ward 13).
Received.
File No. 2116-03.
Re: New Application — 3993688 —
Host English Joint Venture, d.b.a.
Cleveland Emporium, 5300 Riverside
Drive. (Ward 20). Received.
File No. 2117-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 7641741 — S. & M. 185, Inc.,
d.b.a. Back Door Beverage, 568 East
185th Street. (Ward 11). Received.
File No. 2118-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 8367380 — Somer Day,
Inc., d.b.a. Libby’s Place, first and
second floors and basement front,
4105-07 Clark Avenue. (Ward 14).
Received.
PLATS
File No. 2119-03.
Resubdivision plat for The Montana Townhouse Development. (Ward
5). Received.
Referred to Committees on Public
Service and City Planning.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 2120-03—William Taylor
Britt, Sr.
Res. No. 2121-03—Hugh Danaceau.

The City Record

4
Res. No. 2122-03—Gloria Mae Kimble.
Res. No. 2123-03 — Ivory Jean
Hardnick.
Res. No. 2124-03 — Rev. John D.
James.
Res. No. 2125-03 — Mrs. Jean LeLeva.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2126-03—Our Lady of Mt.
Carmel Holy Name Society.
Res. No. 2127-03—Joseph Wise.
Res. No. 2128-03—Calvin & Beatrice Hunt.
Res. No. 2129-03—William J. Reidy.
Res. No. 2130-03 — Rev. Rick J.
Wilberg.
Res. No. 2131-03—Commander Marvin Cross.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2132-03 — The Cleveland
Play House.
Res. No. 2133-03 — Partners In
Action.
WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 2134-03 — Simba Maasai
Outreach Organization.
Res. No. 2135-03—Congresswoman
Maxine Waters.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 2089-03.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
issue rent credits to HMSHost, formerly known as Host International,
Inc., under Concession Agreement No.
42575, for improvements to the mall
area, Gate C1 area, and the elbow
area of Concourse C at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport; and
authorizing the Director to enter
into an amendment to the Concession Agreement regarding the rent
credits.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into an amendment to Concession
Agreement No. 42575 (“Amendment”)
with HMSHost, formerly known as
Host International, Inc. (“Host”), to
issue rent credits to Host to make
the
following
improvements
at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, all as approved by the
Director: (a) flattening of the mall
ramp adjacent to the On Stage
Restaurant; (b) pulling of electrical,

plumbing and other utilities to the
Gate C1 and Concourse C “elbow”
areas; (c) refinishing the terrazzo
flooring in the mall after the relocation of the merchandise carts; and
(d) making any additional, related
improvements. The rent
credit
amount will be equal to the actual
cost to make the improvements.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to execute any additional documents necessary and appropriate to issue the
rent credits.
Section 3. That the Amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain any additional terms and conditions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2090-03.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cintron, Zone, Sweeney and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland for
the rehabilitation of Lorain Avenue
between West 41st Street and West
65th Street; authorizing the Director
of Public Service to enter into any
agreements relative thereto; determining the method of making the
public improvement; authorizing the
Director of Public Service to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the improvement; and
authorizing the Director to enter
into a Local Project Administration
agreement with the Ohio Department of Transportation regarding
the public improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is declared to be
in the public interest that the consent of the City of Cleveland is
given to the Director of Transportation of the State of Ohio (the
“Director
of
Transportation”)
to
make the following improvements
under the plans, specifications and
estimates approved by the Director
of Transportation: The rehabilitation of Lorain Avenue between West
41st Street and West 65th Street,
including resurfacing and necessary
base repairs, replacement of curbs,
curb
ramps,
sidewalk,
driveway
aprons,
and
appurtenances,
as
deemed necessary by the Director of
Public Service (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the City proposes
to cooperate with the Director of
Transportation in the cost of the
Improvement by assuming and contributing the entire cost and ex-

2446

October 29, 2003
pense of the Improvement less the
amount of funds set aside by the
Director of Transportation for the
financing of the Improvement. The
entire cost of engineering shall be
borne by the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into agreements necessary to complete the planning and construction
of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain terms and conditions that the Director of Law
determines shall best protect the
public interest.
Section 4. That on completion of
the Improvement, the City will:
(a) Keep the affected highway
open to traffic at all times;
(b) Maintain the Improvement
according to the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial and other provisions
for the maintenance;
(c) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the Director of
Transportation and hold the right-ofway inviolate for public highway
purposes
and
permit
no
signs,
posters, billboards, roadside stands
or other private installations within
the limits of the right-of-way;
(d) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices according to the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Devices
under the provisions of Section
4511.11 and related sections of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
(e) Regulate parking by maintaining existing parking restrictions
within the limits of the Improvement.
Section 5. (a) That all existing
streets
and
public
rights-of-way
within the City which are necessary
for the Improvement shall be made
available therefor.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for
the Improvement the Director of
Public Service will arrange for the
acquisition thereof.
(c) That arrangements have been
or will be made with and agreements obtained from all public utility companies whose lines or structures will be affected by the Improvement, that the companies have
agreed to make any and all necessary rearrangements in a manner as
to be clear of any construction
called for by the plans for the
Improvement and that the companies have agreed to make necessary
rearrangements immediately after
notification by the City or the State
of Ohio.
(d) That the City, at its own
expense, shall make all rearrangements of water mains, service lines,
fire hydrants, valve boxes, sanitary
sewers or other City-owned utilities
and appurtenances which do not
comply
with
the
provisions
of
ODOT Directive No. 38-A, whether
inside or outside the corporate limits of the City, as may be necessary
to conform to the Improvement, and
that the rearrangements shall be
done at such time as requested by
the State.
(e) That the construction, reconstruction and rearrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner
as not to interfere unduly with the
operations of the contractor or contractors constructing the Improve-

October 29, 2003
ment, and all backfilling of trenches made necessary by utility rearrangement shall be performed
under the provisions of the ODOT
Construction and Material Specifications
and
shall
be
subject
to
approval by the State.
(f) That the City agrees that the
State of Ohio shall be saved harmless from any and all damages or
claims for which it is legally liable
arising from or growing out of the
certification or obligations made or
agreed to in this section.
(g) That stop signs affecting the
movement of traffic on any street
within the limits of the Improvement shall be removed and no stop
signs will be erected except at intersections with another through highway where traffic does not warrant
the installation of a traffic control
signal but where the warrants for a
“Four-Way Stop” as provided in the
aforesaid Manual are met.
(h) That no rule or regulation
may be enacted restricting the use
of the Improvement by any class of
vehicle or vehicle load permitted by
the Ohio Revised Code to use a public highway. Any existing rule or
regulation so restricting road usage
is rescinded.
Section 6. That the Council of the
City requests the State to proceed
with the Improvement.
Section 7. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of making the
Improvement, for the Department of
Public Service, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for
the improvement.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding on
a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement
may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 9. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into a Local Project Administration
Agreement with the Director of
Transportation necessary to effect
the Improvement and to partially
finance the improvement described
in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 10. That the cost of the
Improvement shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 334, 20 SF 342, 20
SF 353, 20 SF 364, 20 SF 373, 20 SF
380, 20 SF 383, and 20 SF 394, and
from the fund or funds which are
credited the funds received by the
Ohio Department of Transportation
which are appropriated for this purpose.
Section 11. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to transmit to the
Director of Transportation three certified
copies
of
this
ordinance
immediately on the taking effect of
this ordinance, and it shall become
the basis for proceeding with the
Improvement.

The City Record
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 2091-03.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the schedule of prices for all the
various parts and sections of the
West Side Market, according to Section 133.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Whereas, Section 133.16 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1027-2000, passed June 5, 2000,
requires the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties to present
a schedule of prices for all the various parts and sections of the West
Side
Market
for
the
Council’s
review, approval, and modification;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the schedule of prices for
the various parts and sections of the
West Side Market placed in File No.
2091-03-A.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 2092-03.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of food and
beverage items, golf-related items,
equipment and supplies, and labor
and materials necessary to maintain
and
operate
the
Highland
and
Seneca Golf Courses, for the Division of Recreation, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

2447

5
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to make one or more
written requirement contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for the period of
two years of the necessary items of
food and beverage items, golf-related items, equipment and supplies,
and labor and materials necessary
to maintain and operate the Highland and Seneca Golf Courses, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 136680)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance
may be made through cooperative
agreements using state procedures.
The Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties may sign all documents with the State of Ohio or any
of its political subdivisions that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 2099-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Arbor Park Place LLC to
provide a grant to partially finance
security costs after the redevelopment of the commercial center located at the southwest corner of Longwood Plaza, located at East 40th
Street and Quincy Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.

6
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Arbor Park Place LLC
to provide a grant to economic
development assistance to partially
finance security costs after the redevelopment of the commercial center
located at the southwest corner of
Longwood Plaza, located at East
40th Street and Quincy Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the total amount
of
the
grant
shall
not
exceed
$120,000 and shall be disbursed in
three phases.
Section 3. That the costs of the
Phase I of the grant shall not
exceed
Forty
Thousand
Dollars
($40,000) and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 652, which funds are
appropriated for this purpose. The
costs of Phases II and III of the contract shall not exceed Forty Thousand Dollars ($40,000) each, and
shall be paid from Fund No. 17 SF
652, subject to annual appropriation,
Request No. 13039.
Section 4. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
grant agreement and other documents necessary to complete the
transaction.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 2100-03.
By Council Members Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to place a declaration
of covenants and restrictions on
City-owned property located at the
southwest corner of East 55th and
Woodland Avenue.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain real property located
at the southwest corner of East 55th
and Woodland Avenue; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is
authorized to place a declaration of
covenants and restrictions on Cityowned property located at the southwest corner of East 55th and Woodland Avenue.
Section 2. That the Declaration of
Restrictions shall prohibit the oper-

The City Record
ation of a grocery store at the East
55th and Woodland Avenue location
as long as Dave’s Supermarket, Inc.,
or its subsidiary, operates a grocery
store at Longwood Plaza, located at
the southwest corner of East 40th
and Quincy Avenue, and shall contain other necessary provisions as
the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the City
of Cleveland.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development,
City
Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 2101-03.
By Council Members Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Section 11 of Ordinance No.
1978-01, passed December 3, 2001,
relating to a loan agreement, an
Empowerment
Zone
Section
108
loan, and an Economic Development Initiative Grant Agreement
with New Village Corporation, or
its designee, to partially finance
the
acquisition,
predevelopment
costs, soft costs, building improvements, and all other associated
costs to redevelop the property
located on the southwest corner of
East 40th and Quincy Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 11 of Ordinance No. 1978-01, passed December
3, 2001, is amended to read as follows:
Section 11. That the terms of both
loans and the grant shall be in
accordance with the terms as set
forth in the Summary contained in
File No. 1978-01-B.
Section 2. That Section 11 of Ordinance No. 1978-01, passed December
3, 2001, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development,
City
Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance.

2448

October 29, 2003
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 2094-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution declaring it necessary to provide for additional security for the Cleveland
Theater District (“District”), cleaning and maintenance of the public
right-of-way and Star Plaza within
the District, and collective marketing of the District in the City of
Cleveland; approving the comprehensive plan of services to be provided by the District; providing for
the assessment of the cost and
expense of said plan upon the benefited properties within the District;
and declaring an emergency.
Whereas, this Council, through
Resolution No. 483-95, adopted June
5, 1995, as amended by Resolution
1746-97, adopted December 15, 1997,
created the Cleveland Theater District under Chapter 1710 of the
Revised Code, bounded generally on
the north by Chester Avenue S.E., on
the south by Prospect Avenue S.E.,
on the east by East 18th Street, and
on the west by East 9th Street, Barn
Court S.E., and East 12th Street
(“District”); and
Whereas, the Cleveland Theater
District Development Corporation,
an Ohio not-for-profit corporation,
was formed in 1997 under Chapters
1702 and 1710 of the Revised Code
to govern the District (“Corporation”); and
Whereas, the Corporation has prepared a comprehensive plan for public services to continue to specially
benefit property within the District,
including providing for additional
security within the District, cleaning and maintenance of the public
rights-of-way within the District and
Star Plaza, and collective marketing
of the District (“Plan”); and
Whereas, the owners of sixty percent or more of front footage of
property that abuts upon any street,
alley, public roadway, place, boulevard, parkway, park entrance, easement,
or
other
existing
public
improvement within the District,
excluding certain property as provided in division (E) of Section
1710.02 of the Revised Code, have
signed a petition requesting that the
City approve the Plan (“Petition”);
and
Whereas, properties within the
District will continue to be specially benefited by the services provided under the Plan and will continue to be assessed to pay for the
costs of the Plan; now, therefore,
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore;
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Petition is
approved.
Section 2. That it is determined
and declared necessary and conducive to the public health, convenience, and welfare of the City of
Cleveland and its residents to continue to provide additional security
for the District, additional cleaning
and maintenance of the public rightsof-way and Star Plaza in the District,
and collective marketing of the Dis-

October 29, 2003
trict for a five-year period commencing after the passage of the ordinance to proceed in this matter.
Section 3. That it is determined
that the property in the District will
continue to be specially benefited by
the above described public services
and shall be assessed, calculated as
the percentage of tax value of the
property taken as a percentage of
the District as a whole.
Section 4. That, except as stated
in Section 5 of this ordinance, the
Plan of services to be provided by
the District, on file in File No. 209403-A, is approved under division (B)
of Section 1710.06(B) of the Revised
Code,
at
an
estimated
cost
of
$1,600,000.00; and that all conditions
for submission of the Plan have
been met.
Section 5. That any portion of the
Plan that duplicates services to be
undertaken by the City and any
existing or future Tree Assessment
District relating to downtown, is
expressly not approved and shall be
void.
Section 6. That the entire cost of
the Plan shall be specially assessed
by a percentage of the tax value of
all lots and lands within the District
which the lots and lands are determined to be specially benefited by
the Plan in the amount equal to the
amount specially assessed against
each lot and land. The cost of the
Plan shall include the cost of printing, serving, and publishing notices,
resolutions,
and
ordinances,
the
amount of damages resulting from
the Plan assessed in favor of any
owner of land affected by the Plan
and the interests thereon, the costs
incurred in connection with the
preparation, levy, and collection of
the special assessments, the cost of
purchasing, appropriating, and otherwise acquiring any required real
estate or interests therein, expenses
of legal services, the cost of all
labor and materials, and all other
necessary expenditures allowed by
law.
Section 7. That the assessments to
be levied shall be paid when levied
in five annual installments. The
first annual installment of $300,000.00
shall be payable in cash within 30
days after passage of the City’s ordinance of assessment. All cash payments remaining unpaid at the expiration of said 30 days shall be certified by the Clerk of this Council
to the County Auditor as provided
by law to be placed by him on the
tax duplicate and collected as other
taxes are collected.
Section 8. That the second annual
installment of $310,000.00, the third
annual installment of $320,000.00, the
fourth
annual
installment
of
$330,000.00, and the fifth annual
installment of $340,000.00 shall each
be paid on each of the next four
anniversaries of the date of passage
of the City’s ordinance of assessment. All cash payments remaining
unpaid at the expiration of said 30
days shall be certified by the Clerk
of this Council to the County Auditor as provided by law to be placed
by him on the tax duplicate and collected as other taxes are collected.
Section 9. That no notes or bonds
of the City of Cleveland shall be
issued in anticipation of the collection of the special assessments.

The City Record
Section 10. That the Commissioner
of
Assessment
and
Licenses
is
authorized to prepare and file in the
Office of the Clerk of Council an
estimated assessment under the provisions of this resolution showing
the
amount
of
the
assessment
against each lot or parcel of land to
be assessed. Such estimated assessment shall be based on the estimated costs of the Plan, now on file in
the Office of the Clerk of Council.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Public Service, City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 2088-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the retention and use of revenue
by the general fund from tax remittances collected by Cleveland Public
Power during the year 2004, and
authorizing Cleveland Public Power
to apply up to $2 million from previously collected tax remittances,
and up to $2 million from revenues
generated by an existing charge, to
the replacement of copper naphthenate poles in the Cleveland Public Power System.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 91098, passed February 14, 2000, this
Council authorized, among other
things, that Cleveland Public Power
shall receive from the general fund
an amount equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the tax remittances
due the City collected by Cleveland
Public Power under Section 5727.81
of the Revised Code; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1886-02, passed October 28, 2002, this
Council directed that the general
fund shall retain all of the tax
remittances collected by Cleveland
Public Power during 2003; and
Whereas,
additional
legislative
authority is necessary in order for
the general fund to retain all such
tax remittances collected during calendar year 2004; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1886-02
also authorized Cleveland Public
Power to apply up to $1,000,000 from
revenues generated by an increase
in the incremental charge described
in Ordinance No. 910-98, and up to
$1,000,000 of tax remittances collected by Cleveland Public Power under
Section 5727.81 of the Revised Code
and received by Cleveland Public
Power from the general fund prior
to January 1, 2003, to the cost in calendar year 2003 of replacing utility
poles treated with copper naphthenate in the Cleveland Public Power
distribution system; and

2449

7
Whereas, legislative authority is
necessary to authorize Cleveland
Public
Power
to
apply
up
to
$2,000,000 from such incremental
charge, and up to $2,000,000 from
such tax remittances, to the cost in
calendar year 2004 of replacing the
copper naphthenate poles; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to Ordinance
No. 910-98, passed February 14, 2000,
as amended by Ordinance No. 188602, passed October 28, 2002, the general fund shall retain 100% of the
tax remittances collected under Section 5727.81 of the Revised Code during calendar year 2004.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to Ordinance
No. 910-98, passed February 14, 2000,
as amended by Ordinance No. 188602, passed October 28, 2002, Cleveland Public Power is authorized to
apply up to $2,000,000 from revenues
generated by the increase in
the
incremental
charge
described
in
Ordinance No. 910-98, and up to
$2,000,000 of tax remittances collected by Cleveland Public Power under
Section 5727.81 of the Revised Code
and received by Cleveland Public
Power from the general fund prior
to January 1, 2003, to the cost in calendar year 2004 of replacing utility
poles treated with copper naphthenate in the Cleveland Public Power
distribution system.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2093-03.
By Council Members Scott, Gordon
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Glenville Development
Corporation to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance a holiday street beautification project in the Glenville neighborhood.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Glenville Development
Corporation to provide economic

8
development assistance to partially
finance a holiday street beautification project in the Glenville neighborhood.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed $75,000 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 17 SF
652, Request No. 103598.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
grant agreement and other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2095-03.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 5 of Ordinance No.
983-03, passed June 10, 2003, relating
to the sale of Economic Development Revenue Bonds for the Lower
Euclid Avenue Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 5 of
Ordinance No. 983-03, passed June 10,
2003, are amended to read as follows:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined elsewhere in this Ordinance or in the
Indenture, the following words and
terms as used in this Ordinance
shall have the meanings set forth
below. Capitalized words and terms
not defined in this Section or elsewhere in this Ordinance and used
herein shall have the meanings
assigned to them in the Indenture,
including Exhibit A thereto which is
incorporated herein by reference,
unless the context or use clearly
indicates another meaning or intent:
“238 Euclid” means 238 Euclid,
LLC, an Ohio limited liability company,
and
its
successors
and
assigns.
“238
Euclid
Loan
Agreement”
means the Agreement, to be dated
as of the first day of the month in
which the Closing Date of the Series
2003A Bonds occurs, by and between
the Issuer and 238 Euclid, as amended and supplemented from time to
time.
“238 Euclid Project” means the
construction and renovation of commercial restaurant and retail facilities, all as more fully described in
Exhibit A to the 238 Euclid Loan
Agreement.
“318 Euclid” means 318 Euclid,
LLC, an Ohio limited liability com-

The City Record
pany,
and
its
successors
and
assigns.
“318
Euclid
Loan
Agreement”
means the Agreement, to be dated
as of the first day of the month in
which the Closing Date of the Series
2003A Bonds occurs, by and between
the Issuer and 318 Euclid, as amended and supplemented from time to
time.
“318 Euclid Project” means the
construction and renovation of commercial restaurant and retail facilities, all as more fully described in
Exhibit A to the 318 Euclid Loan
Agreement.
“Act” means Chapter 165, Ohio
Revised
Code,
as
enacted
and
amended from time to time pursuant
to Section 13 of Article VIII of the
Ohio Constitution.
“Agreement”
or
“Agreements”
means the 238 Euclid Loan Agreement, the 318 Euclid Loan Agreement and the OSF Loan Agreement.
“Authorized
Denominations”
means
$100,000
and
any
larger
denomination constituting an integral multiple of $1,000, unless otherwise provided in the Final Terms
Certificate.
“Bond” or “Bonds” means the
Series 2003A and the Series 2003B
Bonds.
“Bond Funds” means the Series
2003A Bond Fund and the Series
2003B Bond Fund created under the
Indenture.
“Bond Service Charges” means, for
any period of time, the principal of
(whether at stated maturity, by
mandatory sinking fund redemption,
or otherwise) and interest, and any
premium due on the Bonds for that
period or payable at that time, as
the case may be.
“Borrower” or “Borrowers” means
238 Euclid, 318 Euclid and OSF, and
their lawful successors and assigns,
to the extent permitted by the
Agreements.
“City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
“Clerk” means the Clerk of the
Council of the Issuer.
“Closing
Date”
means,
with
respect to any Series of Bonds, the
date on which the Bonds of that
Series are delivered to the Original
Purchaser
thereof
and
payment
therefor is made to the Issuer.
“Codified Ordinances” means the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland.
“Council” means the Council of the
City of Cleveland, Ohio.
“District” means the real property
described in Ordinance No. 2247-02,
passed by the Council on December
16, 2002.
“Economic Development Director”
means the Director of Economic
Development of the City.
“Euclid/Prospect II TIF Fund”
means the urban redevelopment tax
increment equivalent fund established by the City in Ordinance No.
2247-02 pursuant to Section 5709.43,
Ohio Revised Code.
“Final Terms Certificate” means
the Series 2003A Final Terms Certificate, the Series 2003B-1 Final
Terms Certificate and the Series
2003B-2 Final Terms Certificate.
“Fiscal Officer” means the Director of Finance of the Issuer.
“Holder” or “Holder of a Bond”
means the person in whose name a

2450

October 29, 2003
Bond is registered on the Register
for which provision is made in the
Indenture.
“Indenture”
means
the
Trust
Indenture, between the Issuer and
the Trustee, to be dated as of the
first day of the month in which the
Closing Date of the Series 2003A
Bonds occurs, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
“Interest Payment Date” means
each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2003, or such
other Interest Payment Date as
defined in the applicable Final
Terms Certificate.
“Issuer” means the City.
“Law Director” means the Director
of Law of the Issuer.
“Loan” means the loan by the
Issuer to each Borrower of a portion of the proceeds received from
the sale of the various Series of
Bonds.
“Loan
Payments”
means
the
amounts required to be paid by each
Borrower in repayment of the Loan
pursuant to the provisions of each
respective Agreement.
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”
means the Principal Payment Date
or Dates on which each Series of
Bonds shall be subject to Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption.
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements” means, as
to the Bonds, the deposits required
to be made in respect of the mandatory redemption requirements as set
forth in the Indenture.
“Mayor” means the Mayor of the
City.
“Nontax
Revenues”
means
all
money of the Issuer that is not
money raised by taxation, to the
extent available, if needed, for
deposit in the Bond Fund as provided in the Indenture, including
but not limited to the following: (a)
charges for services and payments
received in reimbursement for services; (b) payments in lieu of taxes
now or hereafter authorized by State
statute; (c) fines and forfeitures;
(d) fees from properly imposed
licenses and permits; (e) investment
earnings on any funds of the Issuer
that are credited to the Issuer’s General Fund; (f) proceeds from the
sale of assets; (g) rental income;
(h) grants from the United States of
America and the State of Ohio; (i)
gifts and donations; and (j) Project
Revenues.
“Ordinance” means this Ordinance
providing for the issuance of the
Bonds and approving the Agreements, the Indenture and related
matters.
“Original Purchaser” means with
respect to the Series 2003A Bonds
and the Series 2003B-1 Bonds, the
City, and with respect to the 2003B2 Bonds, Cleveland Development
Partnership II, L.P., or its designee.
“OSF” means OSF Properties, Inc.,
an Ohio corporation, and its successors and assigns.
“OSF Loan Agreement” means the
Agreement, to be dated as of the
first day of the month in which the
Closing Date of the Series 2003A
Bonds occurs, by and between the
Issuer and OSF, as amended and
supplemented from time to time.
“OSF Project” means the construction of an approximately 550-space
parking garage, all as more fully

October 29, 2003
described in Exhibit A to the OSF
Loan Agreement.
“Other Property Excess Service
Payments” means Service Payments
in excess of $25,000 in the aggregate
derived from property owned by any
property owner or its affiliates
(other than affiliates of OSF, and its
successors and assigns) who has not
received proceeds of the Bonds.
“Person” or words importing persons mean firms, associations, partnerships (including without limitation, general and limited partnerships),
joint
ventures,
societies,
estates, trusts, corporations, public
or governmental bodies, other legal
entities, and natural persons.
“Pledged Nontax Revenues” means
(i) all Project Revenues, (ii) proceeds of any series of Bonds to be
used to pay capitalized interest or
otherwise to be available to pay
Bond
Service
Charges,
(iii)
all
money in the Special Funds, and
(iv) all income and profit from the
investment of the foregoing money.
“Principal Payment Date” means
Principal Payment Date as defined
in the applicable Final Terms Certificate.
“Projects” means, collectively, the
238 Euclid Project, the 318 Euclid
Project and the OSF Project.
“Project Fund” means the Series
2003A Project Fund and the Series
2003B Project Fund as established
under the Indenture.
“Project
Purposes”
means
the
acquisition, construction, rehabilitation and renovation of real and personal property consisting of commercial facilities for parking, entertainment and retail sales purposes,
or any other use which may be permitted by the Act and the Agreements.
“Project Revenues” means (a) the
Service Payments (other than the
Other Property Excess Service Payments); (b) the Loan Payments, (c)
all amounts payable to the Trustee
with respect to the principal or
redemption price of, or interest on,
the Bonds (i) by each Borrower as
required under the Agreements and
(ii) upon deposit in the Bond Fund
from the proceeds of the Bonds, (d)
any moneys and investments in each
Project Fund, and (e) investment
income with respect to any of the
foregoing.
“Regular Record Date” means the
first day of the calendar month in
which an Interest Payment Date
occurs.
“Series 2003A Bond Fund” means
the Series 2003A Bond Fund established under the Indenture.
“Series 2003A Bonds” means the
Series 2003A-1 Bonds and the Series
2003A-2 Bonds.
“Series 2003A Final Terms Certificate” means the certificate or certificates authorized under Section 5
of this Ordinance with respect to the
Series 2003A-1 Bonds and the Series
2003A-2 Bonds, to be signed by the
Fiscal Officer, setting forth and
determining those terms or other
matters pertaining to the Series
2003A Bonds and their issuance,
sale, and delivery as this Ordinance
requires or authorizes to be set forth
or determined therein, in substantially the form put on file with the
Clerk in connection with this Ordinance in File No. 983-03-A.

The City Record
“Series 2003A-1 Bonds” means the
City of Cleveland, Ohio Economic
Development Revenue Bonds, Series
2003A-1 (Lower Euclid Avenue Project).
“Series 2003A-2 Bonds” means the
City of Cleveland, Ohio Economic
Development Revenue Bonds, Series
2003A-2 (Lower Euclid Avenue Project).
“Series 2003B Bond Fund” means
the Series 2003B Bond Fund established under the Indenture.
“Series 2003B Bonds” means the
Series 2003B-1 Bonds and the Series
2003B-2 Bonds.
“Series 2003B-1 Final Terms Certificate” means the certificate or certificates authorized under Section 5
of this Ordinance with respect to the
Series 2003B-1 Bonds, to be signed
by the Fiscal Officer, setting forth
and determining those terms or
other matters pertaining to the
Bonds and their issuance, sale, and
delivery as this Ordinance requires
or authorizes to be set forth or
determined therein, in substantially
the form put on file with the Clerk
in connection with this Ordinance in
the above-mentioned File.
“Series 2003B-2 Final Terms Certificate” means the certificate or certificates authorized under Section 5
of this Ordinance with respect to the
Series 2003B-2 Bonds, to be signed
by the Fiscal Officer, setting forth
and determining those terms or
other matters pertaining to the
Bonds and their issuance, sale, and
delivery as this Ordinance requires
or authorizes to be set forth or
determined therein, in substantially
the form put on file with the Clerk
in connection with this Ordinance in
the above-mentioned File.
“Series 2003B-1 Bonds” means the
City of Cleveland, Ohio Economic
Development Revenue Bonds, Series
2003B-1 (Lower Euclid Avenue Project).
“Series 2003B-2 Bonds” means the
City of Cleveland, Ohio Economic
Development Revenue Bonds, Series
2003B-2 (Lower Euclid Avenue Project).
“Service Payments” means the service payments in lieu of taxes made
pursuant to the TIF Agreement, to
be held in the Euclid/Prospect II
TIF Fund.
“Special Funds” means the Special
Funds as defined in the Indenture.
“State” means the State of Ohio.
“TIF Agreement” means the Tax
Increment
Financing
Agreement
between the City and Lower Euclid
Avenue LLC, dated as of December
20, 2002.
“Trustee” means the Trustee as
set forth in each Final Terms Certificate, until a successor Trustee
shall have become such pursuant to
the applicable provisions of the
Indenture, and thereafter “Trustee”
shall mean the successor Trustee.
The captions and headings in this
Ordinance are solely for convenience
of reference and do not define, limit,
or describe the scope or intent of
any provisions or Sections of this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Sale of the Bonds. The
Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized
and directed to negotiate and approve the sale of each Series of
Bonds with the Original Purchaser

2451

9
for such Bonds, at the purchase
price established in each Final
Terms Certificate, which purchase
price shall not be less than the
principal amount of each series of
Bonds plus accrued interest, and in
accordance with the terms and provisions of this Ordinance, and to
determine the interest rates on and
the aggregate principal amount and
principal maturities of the Bonds in
order to consummate the sale of the
Series 2003A Bonds and the Series
2003B-1 Bonds on or around June 1,
2003, and the Series 2003B-2 Bonds
on or around December 1, 2004, subject to the limitations contained in
Section 4 hereof. Such approval
shall be evidenced by the signing
of each Final Terms Certificate by
the Fiscal Officer that sets forth
and shall set forth the principal
amount of and interest rates on the
Bonds and the maturity schedule of
the Bonds together with any other
matters required under this Ordinance. Each Final Terms Certificate shall be incorporated in and
form a part of this Ordinance. The
Fiscal Officer is also hereby authorized and directed to determine the
extent, if any, and manner in which
the Issuer’s pledge of Nontax Revenues with respect to the Bonds
will be subordinated to the pledge
of such Revenues with respect to
any obligations designated in each
Final Terms Certificate as senior to
each Series of Bonds.
The
agreement
of
Cleveland
Development Partnership II, L.P., or
its designee, as Original Purchaser
to purchase the Series 2003B-2 Bonds
shall be evidenced by its signature
on the Final Terms Certificate for
the Series 2003B-2 Bonds. The Fiscal
Officer is authorized to make the
necessary arrangements on behalf
of the Issuer to establish the date,
location, procedure, and conditions
for the delivery of each Series of
Bonds to each Original Purchaser.
That officer is further authorized to
take all actions necessary to effect
due signing, authentication, and
delivery of the Bonds under the
terms of this Ordinance and the
Indenture.
It is determined that the parameters for the terms of the Bonds, and
the sale thereof at private sale, all
as provided for in this Ordinance,
are in the best interest of and most
advantageous for the Issuer and in
compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 2. That existing Sections 1
and 5 of Ordinance No. 983-03, passed
June 10, 2003, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

The City Record

10

October 29, 2003

Ord. No. 2096-03.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with Treasurers and Ticket Sellers
Union, Local 756; and to amend Section 42 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1801-03, passed October 20, 2003, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance with division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council hereby
approves the collective bargaining agreement with Treasurers and Ticket Sellers Union, Local 756, which contains the terms set forth in File No. 2096-03-A, for the period from April 1, 2001 through March 31, 2004, which
provides, among other things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the bargaining unit in
accordance with the following schedule:
Increase

Effective Date of Increase

Three percent (3%)
Three and one-half percent (3.5%)
Four percent (4%)

April 1, 2001
April 1, 2002
April 1, 2003

Section 2. That Section 42 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1801-03,
passed October 20, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 42. Part-Time/Seasonal Group
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.

Box Office Cashier .....................................................................
Chaplain..........................................................................................
Checker ...........................................................................................
Conservation Aide.......................................................................
Dentist .............................................................................................
Head Usher....................................................................................
Law Clerk ......................................................................................
Medical Examiner.......................................................................
Organ Tuner .................................................................................
Park Maintenance Aide ............................................................
Ranger.............................................................................................
School Crossing Guard (Per Day) .......................................
Section Supervisor.......................................................................
Snow Removal Vehicle Operator ..........................................
Stage Hand....................................................................................
Stage Hand Casual.....................................................................
Stage Hand – Show Rate (Per Show) ...............................
Student Aide .................................................................................
Student Assistant ........................................................................
Usher................................................................................................
Usher Captain...............................................................................

Minimum
$
10.33
$
9.34
$
9.34
$
9.34
$
13.38
$
9.34
$
9.34
$
21.40
$
9.63
$
9.34
$
9.34
$
20.50
$
9.34
$
10.40
$
19.11
$
20.60
$
64.89
$
9.34
$
9.34
$
9.34
$
9.34

Maximum
$
15.49
$
11.48
$
9.34
$
9.34
$
28.58
$
11.35
$
12.48
$
58.61
$
25.07
$
9.34
$
11.20
$
26.00
$
9.34
$
15.04
$
27.34
$
27.00
$
88.75
$
9.34
$
9.34
$
9.34
$
9.34

Section 3. That existing Section 42 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No.
1801-03, passed October 20, 2003, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20. Nays 0.

Ord. No. 2097-03.
By Council Member Cimperman
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to name
the Cleveland Browns Football Stadium Roadway “Alfred Lerner Way”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Citizens of the
City of Cleveland wish to pay special tribute and honor to Mr. Alfred
(“Al”) Lerner, who will be remembered for bringing our beloved
Cleveland Browns Football Team

home again. Mr. Lerner will also be
remembered for his humanitarian
gifts and kindness to local hospitals
and charities. The Cleveland Browns
Football Fans and Players will
remember him as a “Fan” and one
of their own. Therefore, we propose
the following.
Section 2. That the name of all
that portion of of the Cleveland
Browns Football Stadium Roadway
(width varies) directly bordering
the Cleveland Browns Football Stadium on its Southerly perimeter, and
running between Relocated Erieside
Avenue (70.00 feet wide) and West
3rd Street (99.00 feet wide) be and
the same is now named “Alfred
Lerner Way”.

2452

Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

October 29, 2003

The City Record

11

Ord. No. 2102-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 113.12 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 230-01, passed February 12, 2001, relating to fees for publications and services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 113.12 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
230-01, passed February 12, 2001, is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 113.12 Fees for Publications and Services
(a) The Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to collect the following fees for Codified Ordinance publications
reflecting amendments passed by Cleveland City Council through June 10, 2003:
Unit
Charter
Part I, Administrative Code
Part II, Health Code
Part III, Land Use Code, Planning and Housing
Part III, Zoning Code
Part III, Land Use Code, Housing Code
Part III, Land Use Code, Fire Prevention Code
Building Code
Part IV, Traffic Code
Part V, Municipal Utilities and Services Code
Part VI, Offenses and Business Activities Code

Cost
$ 7.03
$ 28.10
$ 17.04
$ 14.94
$ 10.40
$ 14.25
$ 19.60
$ 10.40
$ 14.37
$ 28.10
$ 19.75

Complete Set
Complete Set

$323.12

A Complete set of the Codified Ordinances includes the Charter and all Parts, the General Index, User’s Guide,
tabbed dividers, and binder.
(a) The Clerk of Council shall charge one dollar ($1.00) for each certification and five cents ($0.05) per page
for copies of ordinances, resolutions, reports, communications, and other documents.
(b) The Clerk of Council shall annually publish a supplement to the Codified Ordinance publication provided
that the first supplement to the Codified Ordinance publication reflecting amendments passed by Cleveland City
Council through June 10, 2003 shall be printed in 2005 and shall incorporate all legislative changes enacted by
Cleveland City Council during the time period of June 11, 2003 and December 31, 2004.
(c) All fees specified herein are net and any sales tax or postage, if applicable, shall be in addition to the
fees set forth herein.
(d) All fees collected in accordance with division (a) of this Section shall be deposited into a special revenue
fund and such funds shall be used only for costs associated with reviewing, compiling, updating, indexing, printing,
and/or codifying the Codified Ordinances and any supplements to the Codified Ordinances, including any costs
associated with alternative formats and internet accessibility.
Section 2. That existing Section 113.12 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 230-01, passed February 12, 2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20. Nays 0.

Ord. No. 2103-03.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Jones, White, Reed, Britt, Scott, Conwell, Polensek, Rybka, Cintron, Gordon,
O’Malley,
Zone,
Westbrook,
Brady, Sweeney and Dolan.
An emergency ordinance amending the Title and Sections 1 and 2
of Ordinance No. 1034-03 passed June
2, 2003, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1114-03, passed June 10, 2003, and
as amended by Ordinance No. 157403, passed August 13, 2003 as it
relates to the Cleveland Fire Fighters Memorial Fund for Cleveland
Fire
Fighters’
Memorial
Relocation/Enhancement Project through
the use of Ward(s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8,
9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 103403 passed June 2, 2003, as amended

by Ordinance No. 1114-03, passed
June 10, 2003, and as amended by
Ordinance No. 1574-03, passed August 13, 2003 are hereby amended to
read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Properties and Recreation to enter into
an agreement with the Cleveland
Fire Fighters Memorial Fund for
Cleveland Fire Fighters’ Memorial
Relocation/Enhancement
Project
through the use of Ward(s) 13, 1,
2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Properties and Recreation is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the Cleveland Fire Fighters Memorial Fund for the Cleveland
Fire
Fighters’
Memorial
Relocation/Enhancement Project for the
public purpose of creating a sculpture that describes the profession of
fire fighting to City of Cleveland
residents
through
the
use
of
Ward(s) 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 Neighborhood Equity Funds.

2453

Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $16,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That the Title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 103403 passed June 2, 2003, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1114-03, passed
June 10, 2003, and as amended by
Ordinance No. 1574-03, passed August 13, 2003 are hereby are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

12
Ord. No. 2104-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development Department to enter
into an agreement with the Buckeye
Area Development Corporation for
the Buckeye Area Housing Rehabilitation Program through the
use of Ward 4 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community
Development
Department is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Buckeye Area
Development Corporation for the
Buckeye Area Housing Rehabilitation Program for the public purpose
of rehabilitating homes in the Buckeye area for City of Cleveland residents through the use of Ward 4
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $80,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 2105-03.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Custom Enrichment
Center for the Corlett Empowerment
Program through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
effective October 3, 2003 to May 30,
2004 with the Custom Enrichment
Center for the Corlett Empowerment Program for the public purpose of providing a social support
program for Cleveland school children and their parents through the
use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $47,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.

The City Record
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 2098-03.
By Council Members Dolan, Sweeney, O’Malley and Polensek.
An emergency resolution declaring Mayo County, Parish of Achill,
Ireland, a sister city of the City of
Cleveland.
Whereas, Achill Parish, located in
County Mayo, Ireland, is known for
its striking beauty and is home to
one of the world’s finest fishing
regions; and
Whereas, over 85% of the 250,000
Irish in Greater Cleveland trace
their ancestral origins to the Parish
of Achill; and
Whereas, many of the Mayo County, Achill Parish Irish originally settled in “Irish bend”, along the Cuyahoga River, south of Detroit and
east of West 25th Street; and
Whereas, representatives of the
City of Cleveland and Mayo County,
Achill Parish have expressed interest in an active exchange of culture,
tourism,
business
and
education
opportunities; and
Whereas, such exchange would
serve to support the development
and growth of both communities, to
deepen the relationship that has
existed between the communities for
the past 200 years, and to expand
and enhance knowledge and understanding between the communities;
and
Whereas, the leaders of Cleveland
and the Mayo County Council, Achill
Parish, have expressed an interest
in working toward establishing a
permanent sister city relationship
between their communities; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby declares Mayo County, Achill
Parish, Ireland, a sister city of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

2454

October 29, 2003
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2106-03.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 13429 Lakewood Heights
Boulevard.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Cheer-Up,
Inc.,
13429
Lakewood
Heights Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44107, Permanent Number 1410123 to
2 Wolves, Inc., 13429 Lakewood
Heights Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44107, Permanent Number 9116441;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Cheer-Up,
Inc.,
13429
Lakewood
Heights Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44107, Permanent Number 1410123 to
2 Wolves, Inc., 13429 Lakewood
Heights Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio
44107, Permanent Number 9116441;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with pro-

October 29, 2003
visions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2107-03.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the stock transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit to 3349
West 117th Street, 1st Floor.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a stock
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to 3349 Fidelity, Inc., 3349
West 117th Street, 1st Floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number
8918565; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the stock
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to 3349 Fidelity, Inc., 3349
West 117th Street, 1st Floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number
8918565; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2108-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 8805 Buckeye Road and
repealing Resolution No. 923-03, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 8805 Buckeye Road by Resolution No. 923-03
adopted by the Council on May 19,
2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to 8805 Buckeye
Road be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 92303, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

2455

13
Res. No. 2109-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3918
East 140th Street and repealing
Resolution No. 1692-02, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 3918
East 140th Street by Resolution No.
1692-02 adopted by the Council on
August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 3918 Co.,
DBA East 140th Street Market, 3918
East 140th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44128, Permanent Number 8917046,
be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1692-02,
containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2110-03.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit at
11824 Lorain Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 2053-03, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to 11824 Lorain Avenue by Resolution No. 2053-03 adopted by the Council on October 20,
2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 11824 Lorain Avenue be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 2053-03, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
transfer thereof.

14
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2111-03.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit at
4200 West 130th Street and repealing Resolution No. 1737-03, objecting
to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to 4200 West 130th
Street by Resolution No. 1737-03
adopted by the Council on September 8, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 4200 West 130th Street be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1737-03, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2112-03.
By Council Member White.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at 3790 East 116th
Street (aka 3790 Martin Luther
King, Jr. Drive) and repealing Resolution No. 1566-03, objecting to said
permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C2 Liquor Permit to 3790 East
116th Street (aka 3790 Martin Luther
King, Jr. Drive) by Resolution No.
1566-03 adopted by the Council on
August 13, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C2 Liquor Permit to 3790 East 116th
Street (aka 3790 Martin Luther
King, Jr. Drive) be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1566-03, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 2113-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at 14510 Kinsman
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 843-03, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C2 Liquor Permit to 14510
Kinsman Avenue, by Resolution No.
843-03 adopted by the Council on
May 12, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C2 Liquor Permit to 14510, Inc., DBA
Kinsman Sunoco, 14510 Kinsman
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number 6549670, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 843-03, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate issuance
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

2456

October 29, 2003
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1510-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 6914 Superior Avenue
to 6920 Superior LLC.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1690-03.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
AirSports Aviation, LTD for the
lease of office space at Burke Lakefront Airport, for the Department of
Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1692-03.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Circadian Knight Corp. dba TOP
GUN for the lease of office space at
Burke Lakefront Airport, for the
Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1693-03.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
American Flyers, Inc. for the lease
of office space at Burke Lakefront
Airport, for the Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1694-03.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
T & G Flying Club, Inc. for the
lease of office space at Burke Lake-

October 29, 2003
front Airport, for the Department of
Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1804-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 808-03, passed June 10, 2003,
relating to the Director of Public
Service entering into one or more
requirement contracts for Leach
packer parts, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1889-03.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of electrical
motors and pumps, including attachments, parts, and equipment, and
labor and materials necessary to
repair electric motor and pumps, for
the Division of Property Management, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, for a period
not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1969-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts without competitive bidding with E.J. Ward, Inc. for spare
replacement parts for the fuel control terminals and for telephone consultation needed to maintain the terminals, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, strike line 9 in its
entirety and insert “Service.”.
2. In Section 1, line 5, strike “not
to exceed” and insert “of one or”; in
Section 1, at the end, add “The Director of Public Service is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
a term of two years instead of one
year when there is a financial advantage to the City. For purposes of this
ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Public Service by comparing the
bids received for both terms.”.
Amendments agreed to.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1970-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of tires, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1971-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials needed to repair, rebuild
and
replace
hydraulic
cylinders,
pumps, motors, valves, fuel injectors, drive shafts gear boxes and
trailers, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1972-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain generators, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1973-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of automotive
paint and supplies, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1974-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more

2457

15
requirement contracts of remanufactured vehicle transmissions, including installation, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1975-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary for the repair of
vehicle frames and vehicle alignments, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1976-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts for purchase
of anti-freeze, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1977-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts without competitive bidding with Finley Fire Equipment
Co., Inc. for Pierce fire apparatus
parts, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 7 and
8
in
their
entirety
and
insert
“Department of Public Service.”.
2. In Section 1, line 6, strike “not
to exceed” and insert “of one or”; in
Section 1, at the end, add “The Director of Public Service is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
a term of two years instead of one
year when there is a financial advantage to the City.
For purposes of
this ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Public Service by comparing the
bids received for both terms.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

16
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1978-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts with Maltese Fire Equipment Co. for the purchase of Duplex
cab and chassis fire apparatus parts
and LTI and Grumman fire apparatus parts, including labor if necessary, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, strike line 9 in its
entirety and insert “Service.”.
2. In Section 1, lines 5 and 6,
strike “not to exceed” and insert “of
one or”; in Section 1, at the end, add
“The Director of Public Service is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1979-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts without competitive bidding with APO Holdings, Inc. for
Ingersoll Rand air compressor parts,
including labor if necessary, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
for a period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, strike line 8 in its
entirety and insert “Service.”.
2. In Section 1, line 5, strike “not
to exceed” and insert “of one or”; in
Section 1, at the end, add “The
Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1980-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts without competitive bidding with Hertz Equipment Rental
Corporation for Sullivan air compressor parts, including labor if necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, strike line 8 in its
entirety and insert “Service.”.
2. In Section 1, line 6, strike “not
to exceed” and insert “of one or”; in
Section 1, at the end, add “The Director of Public Service is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
a term of two years instead of one
year when there is a financial advantage to the City. For purposes of this
ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Public Service by comparing the
bids received for both terms.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1981-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of Ford vehicle
parts, including installation, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
MOTION
By Council Member Jones, seconded by Council Member Cimperman and unanimously carried that
the absence of Council Member
Patricia J. Britt, be and is hereby
authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:45 p.m. to meet on Monday, November 10, 2003, in the Council Chambers.

Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

2458

October 29, 2003
BOARD OF CONTROL

October 15, 2003
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, October 15,
2003, at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Campbell presiding.
Present: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll, Acting Director Pettus, Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Absent: None.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Henry Guzman, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
Resolution No. 614-03.
By Director Baker.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor
by
Boise
Cascade
Office Products, Inc. under Contract
No. 57586, for the purchase of office
supplies for the various divisions of
City
government,
authorized
by
Ordinance No. 1069-02, passed October 7, 2002, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 768-02 adopted December 4, 2002 is approved.
Subcontractor
Percentage Work
Integrated Business Supply
(FBE)
20.0% — $47,500.00
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 615-03.
By Director Baker.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that all bids received on August 27,
2003, for the purchase of: an estimated quantity of labor and materials necessary to maintain Group V
High
Volume
Copiers,
including
usage,
Operational
Supplies
and
Equipment pursuant to authority of
Ordinance No. 886-03 passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 2, 2003 be and the same are
hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 616-03.
By Director Baker.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that all bids received on August 27,
2003 for the purchase of: Group IV
High Volume Photocopiers, pursuant
to authority of Ordinance No. 885-03
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 2, 2003 be and the
same are hereby rejected.

October 29, 2003
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 617-03.
By Director Baker.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of The Great Lakes Towing Company for an estimated quantity of fireboat rehabilitation, all items, including option 1, for the various divisions of City government, for the
period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on September 4, 2003,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1169-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
July 16, 2003, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to One Hundred Two Thousand Eight Hundred Seventy and
00/100 Dollars ($102,870.00) (1%-10
days)
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Finance is hereby requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 130088
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred Two Thousand Eight Hundred Seventy and 00/100 Dollars
($102,870.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 618-03.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Able Contracting Group,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of
labor and materials necessary to
repair and install fencing at various
facilities (all items) for the Division
of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one (1) year beginning with
the later date of execution of a contract, received on the 1st day of
October 2003, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1150-03, passed
July 16, 2003, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Fifty One Thousand Fifty
Seven and 50/100 Dollars ($51,057.50)
(Net) is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is hereby requested to enter into
requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for the

The City Record
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 137353
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Twenty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall further provide that the Contractor will
furnish the remainder of the requirement for such commodities, whether
more or less than said estimated
quantity, as may be ordered under
subsequent requisitions separately
certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 619-03.
By Director Mok.
Resolution by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland, that
all bids received on March 12, 2003,
for the public improvement of Phase
2 Continuation of the Residential
Sound Insulation Program, Sound
Attenuation improvements, Islamic
Mosque, all items, for Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance Nos.
930-95, 469-98 and 327-2000, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
on June 19, 1995, May 18, 1998 and
June 12, 2000 be and the same hereby rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 620-03.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that pursuant to Ordinance No. 83802 passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on June 10, 2002, the
firm of Ralph Tyler Companies is
hereby selected upon the nomination
of the Director of Public Service
from a list of qualified firms available for such employment and determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Public Service as the firm of engineers (“Engineer”) to be employed by contract
for the purpose of supplementing
the regularly employed staff of several departments of the City in
order to provide the professional services
necessary
for
emergency
HVAC and electrical design work at
the Cleveland House of Corrections.
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Public Service hereby is
authorized to enter into a written
contract with Ralph Tyler Companies based upon its proposal dated
May 1, 2003, which contract shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall include such additional provisions as he deems necessary to benefit and protect the public interest.
The fees for services to be performed under the contract authorized hereby shall not exceed Thirty Three Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($33,000.00).

2459

17
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subconsultant by Ralph Tyler Companies is hereby approved:
Dynatech Consulting Engineers
(MBE) — $12,000 — (36.3%)
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 621-03.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Perk Co., Inc. for Underground
Duct Installation Items #1 through
9 for the Division of Traffic Engineering, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1) year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
August 20, 2003, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 371-03
passed March 24, 2003, which on the
basis of the estimated quantities
would amount to Three Hundred
Sixty-six Thousand Eight Hundred
Seventeen Dollars and Fifty Cents
($366,817.50) is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a contract for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 139701
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Sixty
Thousand Nine Hundred Dollars
($60,900.00).
Said contract shall further provide
that the Contractor shall furnish the
remainder of the City’s requirements
for such goods and/or services,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Perk Co., Inc. for the
contract authorized herein is approved:
Subcontractor
Percentage Amount
M-Tech Corp.
(MBE)

16.28% —$59,700.00

Cuyahoga Supply
(FBE)
5.22% — $19,150.00
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 622-03.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of The Cleveland Ignition
Co., Inc. for an estimated quantity
of various automotive and truck
parts, items: 1 (A, B), 4 (A, B, C),
and 5 (A, B, C), for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Depart-

18
ment of Public Service, for the period of one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on August 27, 2003, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 806-03, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on June 10,
2003, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
One Hundred Fifty Three Thousand
and no/100 Dollars ($153,000.00) (2%
10th Prox.) is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 130080
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Ten
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($10,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 623-03.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Lakefront Automotive
Parts, Inc. for an estimated quantity of various automotive and truck
parts, items: 36 (A, B) and 46, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1) year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
August 27, 2003, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 806-03,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 10, 2003, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Seventy Thousand
and no/100 Dollars ($70,000.00) (Net)
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 130081
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Ten
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($10,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Rou-

The City Record
ten, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 624-03.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Servco Products, Inc. for
an estimated quantity of various
automotive and truck parts, item: 39,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
August 27, 2003, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 806-03,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 10, 2003, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Thirty Thousand
and no/100 Dollars ($30,000.00) (1%
10 Days) is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 130083
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Five
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($5,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall, furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 625-03.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of TruckPro, Inc. for an estimated quantity of various automotive and truck parts, items: 2, 10, 12,
13, 14(A, C), 19, 20(B), 21(B, C), 27,
29, 35 and 44, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on August 27, 2003, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 806-03, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on June 10,
2003, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
One Hundred Fifty Eight Thousand
Hundred
and
no/100
Dollars
($158,000.00) (Net 30) is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Service is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 130084
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Ten
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($10,000.00).

2460

October 29, 2003
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subcontractor by TruckPro, Inc. is
hereby approved:
Subcontractor
Percentage Amount
Poly Services, Inc.
(MBE)
3.8% — $6,000.00
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 626-03.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Admiral Truck Parts, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of various
automotive and truck parts, items: 7
(A-E), 9, 11 (A, B), 15, 17 (A, B, C),
21 (A), 23 (A, B), 28, 32, 33, 34, 37
and 38, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
August 27, 2003, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 806-03,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 10, 2003, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Two Hundred Thirty Seven Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($237,000.00) (2% 10 Days) is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 130079
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Forty
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($40,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 627-03.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Perkins Motor Services,
Ltd. for an estimated quantity of
various automotive and truck parts,
items: 6 (A-E), 8, 16, 18, 20 (A), 22

October 29, 2003
(A, B), 25, 26, 30, 31, 43, 45, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
for the period of one (1) year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on August 27,
2003, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 806-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 10, 2003, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Two Hundred Twenty
Nine Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($229,000.00) (2.5% Net 30) is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 130082
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Thirty
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($30,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 628-03.
By Director Draper.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Kone Inc. for an estimated quantity of labor and materials necessary to service and maintain elevators for Third District Police Station
and Police Headquarters for the
Department of Public Safety, for the
period of one (1) year with a oneyear option to renew, received on
the 17th day of September, 2003, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 1008-03, passed June 10, 2003,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to TwentyEight
Thousand
Three
Hundred
Twenty
and
00/100
Dollars
($28,320.00), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No: 121718 as specified,
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Seven
Thousand Eighty and 00/100 Dollars
($7,080.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,

The City Record
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 629-03.
By Director Ronayne.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Simplex Grinnell LP for the following: Fire Alarm Service various
City buildings (All Items) for the
Division of Property Management,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties received on the 16th
day of July 2003, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 299-01,
passed April 9, 2001, which on the
basis of the order quantity would
amount
to
$77,000.00
is
hereby
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Parks, Recreation
and
Properties
is
hereby
requested to enter into contract for
such items.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 630-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance
with the provision of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 117-31-014 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1230-03
passed September 22, 2003, authorized the sale of said parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Tony H. Smith, Sr. has
proposed to the City to purchase
and develop said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to the authorization
of Ordinance No. 1230-03 passed September 22, 2003, by the Cleveland
City Council, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Tony H. Smith,
Sr. for the sale and development of
Permanent Parcel No. 117-31-014, as
described in said Ordinance in
accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of said
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

2461

19
Resolution No. 631-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 104-19-037 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1508-03
passed September 22, 2003, authorized the sale of said parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Helen Wilson has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1508-03 passed September 22, 2003, by the Cleveland
City Council, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Helen Wilson for
the sale and development of Permanent
Parcel
No.
104-19-037,
as
described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the fair
market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 632-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance
with the provision of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 105-32-081 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1513-03
passed September 22, 2003, authorized the sale of said parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Josephine M. Copley has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1513-03 passed September 22, 2003, by the Cleveland
City Council, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Josephine M. Copley for the sale and development of
Permanent Parcel No. 105-32-081, as
described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby deter-

20
mined to be not less than the fair
market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 633-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 006-10-101 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1516-03
passed September 22, 2003, authorized the sale of said parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. has proposed to the City
to purchase and develop said parcel;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1516-03 passed September 22, 2003, by the Cleveland
City Council, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 006-10-101, as described in said
Ordinance in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 634-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 127-11-011 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 692-03
passed September 22, 2003, authorized the sale of said parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Love Center Interdenominational Church has proposed
to the City to purchase and develop
said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of

The City Record
Ordinance No. 692-03 passed September 22, 2003, by the Cleveland City
Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized to execute an official deed for
and on behalf of the City of Cleveland with Love Center Interdenominational Church for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 127-11-011, as described in said
Ordinance in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 635-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 107-09-095 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1512-03
passed September 22, 2003, authorized the sale of said parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Queen E. Kizer has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1512-03 passed September 22, 2003, by the Cleveland
City Council, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Queen E. Kizer
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 107-09-095, as
described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the fair
market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 636-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and

2462

October 29, 2003
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 139-17-034 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1514-03,
passed September 22, 2003, authorized the sale of said parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corporation has proposed to
the City to purchase and develop
said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1514-03 passed September 22, 2003, by the Cleveland
City Council, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Mt. Pleasant Now
Development Corporation for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 139-17-034, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 637-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 009-21-017 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 930-03
passed June 10, 2003, authorized the
sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Jamie Marquardt and
Deborah Marquardt have proposed
to the City to purchase and develop
said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 930-03 passed June 10,
2003, by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
Jamie Marquardt and Deborah Marquardt for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 009-21-017,
as described in said Ordinance in
accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of said
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the fair
market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with the Land Reutilization Program.

October 29, 2003
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 638-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No(s). 106-07-077, 10607-078 and 106-07-079 under said
Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1509-03
passed September 22, 2003, authorized the sale of said parcels for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Stephanie Hunter has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1509-03 passed September 22, 2003, by the Cleveland
City Council, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Stephanie Hunter
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No(s). 106-07-077, 10607-078 and 106-07-079, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent, of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 639-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 111-11-002 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 222-02
passed August 14, 2002, authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Frances Shelby has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 222-02 passed August
14, 2002, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and

The City Record
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Frances Shelby for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel No. 111-11-002, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1,000.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 640-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance
with the provision of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 104-15-040, 104-15041, 104-16-057, 104-17-023, 104-19-014,
104-17-068, 104-17-133, 104-17-134, 10417-135, 104-17-136, 104-17-140, 104-17141, 104-17-154, 104-17-164, 104-17-173,
104-20-049, 104-20-050, 104-21-040, 10421-041, 104-21-043, 104-21-044, 104-21045, 104-21-046, 107-06-090, 104-23-044,
104-23-045, 104-23-046, 104-24-036, 10528-048, 105-28-093, 105-29-050, 105-33018, 105-33-019, 105-33-119, 105-33-135,
106-01-001, 106-01-002, 106-01-093, 10601-096, 106-06-069, 106-06-071, 106-07095, 106-10-031, 106-10-032, 106-10-076,
106-11-006, 106-11-007, 106-11-008, 10611-009, 106-18-001, 106-19-018, 106-19019, 106-20-028, 106-20-037, 106-20-038,
106-21-046, 106-22-105, 106-22-106, 10622-115, 106-22-116, 106-22-157, 106-22162, 106-23-098, 106-23-099, 106-23-133,
107-06-034, 107-06-035, 107-06-089, 10708-004, 107-08-005, 107-09-125 107-20126, 107-12-014, 107-12-050, 107-12-051,
107-06-090 104-17-066, 104-17-067, 106-20036, 106-22-068, 107-09-127 under said
Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1511-03
passed September 22, 2003, authorized the sale of said parcels for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Consortium for Economic and Community Development Inc.
or designee has proposed to the City
to
purchase
and
develop
said
parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1511-03 passed September 22, 2003, by the Cleveland
City Council, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Consortium for
Economic and Community Development Inc. or designee for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 104-15-040, 104-15-041, 104-16057, 104-17-023, 104-19-014, 104-17-068,
104-17-133, 104-17-134, 104-17-135, 10417-136, 104-17-140, 104-17-141, 104-17154, 104-17-164, 104-17-173, 104-20-049,
104-20-050, 104-21-040, 104-21-041, 10421-043, 104-21-044, 104-21-045, 104-21046, 107-06-090, 104-23-044, 104-23-045,
104-23-046, 104-24-036, 105-28-048, 105-

2463

21
28-093, 105-29-050, 105-33-018, 105-33019, 105-33-119 105-33-135, 106-01-001,
106-01-002, 106-01-093, 106-01-096, 10606-069, 106-06-071, 106-07-095, 106-10031, 106-10-032, 106-10-076, 106-11-006,
106-11-007, 106-11-008, 106-11-009, 10618-001, 106-19-018, 106-19-019, 106-20028, 106-20-037, 106-20-038, 106-21-046,
106-22-105, 106-22-106, 106-22-115, 10622-116, 106-22-157, 106-22-162, 106-23098, 106-23-099, 106-23-133, 107-06-034,
107-06-035, 107-06-089, 107-08-004, 10708-005, 107-09-125, 107-09-126, 107-12014, 107-12-050, 107-12-051, 107-06-090,
104-17-066, 104-17-067, 106-20-036, 10622-068, 107-09-1127 as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100 each, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcels for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 641-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 27-01, passed
May 14, 2001, as amended by Ordinance No. 2409-A-01, passed January
14, 2002, by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized, by and at the direction of the
Board of Control, to sell City-owned
property no longer needed for public use, and located within and part
of the Euclid-Prospect II Community Development Plan, Treatment
Area Block 3 Site B, also known as
Permanent Parcel Numbers 101-26045 and 101-26-070, to MRN Limited
Partnership; and
Whereas, said Ordinance No. 27-01,
as amended by Ordinance No. 2409A-01, provided that the consideration
to be paid for said parcels shall be
at a price not less than the fair market value; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 27-01,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on May 14, 2001, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2409-A-01,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on January 14, 2002, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby directed to sell Cityowned property no longer needed for
public use, and located within and
part of the Euclid-Prospect II Community Development Plan, Treatment Area 3 Block B, also known as
Permanent Parcel Numbers 101-26045 and 101-26-070, to MRN Limited
Partnership. The consideration to be
paid for Permanent Parcel Number
101-26-045 shall be Eight Thousand
Dollars ($8,000.00) and the consideration to be paid for Permanent Parcel Number 101-26-070 shall be Two
Hundred Fifty-five Thousand Dollars ($255,000.00), which amounts
are not less than fair market value.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor of the City of Cleveland is
hereby requested to execute and
deliver the official deeds of the City

The City Record

22
of Cleveland conveying said parcels
which documents shall contain such
additional terms and conditions as
the Director of Law shall deem necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 642-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to the Land
Reutilization Program, the City has
acquired Permanent Parcel No. 00724-002 located on Barber Avenue in
Ward 14; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
1547-90, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on April 8, 1991,
this Board of Control adopted Resolution No. 592-03 on October 1, 2003
authorizing the sale of said parcel
to Nael D. Shehadeh, now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 592-03, adopted by
this Board of Control on October 1,
2003, is hereby amended by correcting the parcel number to read 00724-002 “southerly part”.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 529-03 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors
Brown, Nielson, Directors Ricchiuto,
Carroll,
Acting
Director
Pettus,
Directors Ronayne, Hudecek, Routen, Acting Director Jordan, Directors Fumich, Taylor and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 03-276: 9300 Woodland
Avenue (Ward 4)
Coleman Trucking c/o Mark Coleman, owner, and Sam Kash, tenant,
appeal to change the use of an existing approximate 32' x 20' service
station building situated on a 100'
x 140' parcel located in a SemiIndustry District on the southeast
corner of East 93rd Street and Woodland Avenue at 9300 Woodland
Avenue; the proposed change of use
being subject to the Industrial Districts
Regulations
of
Sections
345.03(c)(2) where an auto repair is
required to be 100' from a residential district and the proposed use
abuts a residential district at the
rear and subject to the requirements
of Specific Uses Regulated in Sections 347.08(a)(b)(c) where trash
areas and containers shall not be
visible from a public street or lots
designated for residential purpose
and shall be screened and that trash
shall be stored in non-combustible
airtight containers with adequate
vehicular access for pick up provided; and contrary to Section 352.10 of
the Landscaping and Screening Requirements, where no landscaping is
proposed along either East 93rd
Street or Woodland Avenue and 6'
landscape strips are required between the parking lot and the
street; and subject to the provisions
of Section 349.07 in the Off-Street
Parking and Loading Requirements,
where parking spaces, driveways
and maneuvering areas shall be
striped and properly graded for
drainage, and accessory off-street
parking spaces shall be provided
with wheel or bumper guards and
dimensions of curb cuts be clearly
shown; and an adequate site plan
that is legible, drawn to scale with
property lines being clearly indicated and use areas identified is
required as stated in Section 334.20
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-277: 9410 Way Avenue (Ward 2)
Londell Edwards, owner, previously appealed to install a 45' high
telecommunications tower to the
rear of a 2 1/2-story single family
house on a 50' x 100' parcel in a
Two-Family District and was denied
by the Board on June 30, 2003; appellant now appeals to have a 30' high
telecommunications tower instead
and to be located on the south side
of Way Avenue at 9410 Way Avenue; said installation being contrary
to the Wireless Telecommunications
Facilities Regulations, where a 30'
high telecommunications tower is
proposed where none is permitted in
a Residential District as stated in
Section 354.08(a) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-278: 1012 Fairfield
Avenue (Ward 13)
Leah Sanford, owner, appeals to
construct a wooden, 20' x 21' roof
deck addition to an existing garage
and a 4'-2" x 24' wooden bridge
that connects it to an existing

2464

October 29, 2003
dwelling, and all situated on a 32'
x 91' parcel located in a Multi-Family District on the north side of
Fairfield Avenue at 1012 Fairfield
Avenue; said construction being
contrary to the Height Regulations
of Section 353.05 where the maximum height allowed for an accessory building is a mean height of
15' and an overall height of 16' is
provided; and contrary to the provisions of Area Requirements in
Section 355.04(a) where the maximum gross floor area allowed is
50% of the lot size, or 1,456 s/f, and
a total of 2,090 s/f is proposed; and
contrary to Sections 357.08 of Yards
and Courts, a rear yard of 20' is
required and there is none provided behind the existing garage and
an interior side yard of 2' is proposed where no interior side yard
shall be less than 3' from the property line as stated in Section 357.09
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-286: 3587 East 104th
Street (Ward 2)
Debra Dowd, owner, appeals to
install 84' linear feet of 4' high
chain link fence at the front and side
yards of a one family dwelling on a
35' x 90' parcel located in a SingleFamily District on east side of East
104th Street at 3587 East 104th Street;
the proposed chain link fence being
contrary to the Fence Regulations
where in residential districts only
ornamental fences shall be installed
in actual front yards as stated in Sections 358.04(c)(1) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-287: 2207 East 33rd
Street (Ward 5)
Cellie Pittman, owner, appeals
under Section 329.01(e) from a Violation Notice issued September 30,
2003 by the Building and Housing
Department for failure to comply
with the Residential Districts Requirements, where access and maintenance of accessory off-street parking spaces, driveways and maneuvering areas shall be properly graded for drainage so that all water is
drained within the lot providing
such parking spaces and be surfaced with concrete, asphalt or similar surfacing material, and maintained in good condition, free of
debris and trash as stated in Section
337.18 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-293: 1859 West 25th
Street (Ward 14)
Heil Block, Inc. c/o Jeff Allison,
owner, appeals to change the use of
an existing two-story, brick mixed
use building from 6 dwelling units
and 3 stores to 3 dwelling units, 1
store and 1 bar situated on an
approximate 66' x 157' irregular
shaped parcel in a General Retail
Business District on the southeast
corner of Bridge Avenue and West
25th Street at 1859 West 25th Street;
said change of use being contrary
to the Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements where no parking
spaces are proposed and 18 parking
spaces are required as stated in Section 349.04 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-298: 6512 Hubbard
Avenue (Ward 12)
Eric Jones, owner, appeals to
erect a 20' x 28' two-story, frame
expansion to an existing 1 1/2-story

October 29, 2003
frame, one family dwelling on a 35'
x 50' parcel located in a Semi-Industry District on the south side of
Hubbard Avenue at 6512 Hubbard
Avenue; said expansion being subject to the Industrial Districts Regulations of Section 345.03(b) where
no dwelling house in a Semi-Industry District shall be located within
200' of the boundary of adjoining
General or Unrestricted Industry
Districts and the proposed abuts a
General Industry District and contrary to the Yards and Courts Requirements in Sections 357.09(b)(2),
where no building shall be erected
less than 10' from a main building
on an adjoining lot and a minimum
interior side yard may not be less
than 3' and 2' is provided, and subject to the regulations of Nonconforming Uses where expansion or
change of a nonconforming use
requires the Board of Zoning Appeals approval as stated in Section
359.01 of the Codified Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
27, 2003, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 03-269: 6720 St. Clair
Avenue
Jane Prijatel appealed to install
51’ linear feet of 6’ high ornamental
fence at the front of a patron parking lot of a one-story commercial
building in a Local Retail Business
District.
Calendar No. 03-280: 10929 Detroit
Avenue(A)
Horizon
Construction
Company
Ltd. appealed to erect a 15'-11" x 37'
three-story, one family townhome in
a Residence Office District.
Calendar No. 03-281: 10933 Detroit
Avenue(B)
Horizon
Construction
Company
Ltd. appealed to erect a 19.3' x 39.2'
three-story, one family townhome in
a Residence Office District.
Calendar No. 03-282: 10937 Detroit
Avenue(C)
Horizon
Construction
Company
Ltd. appealed to erect a 24.73' x
58.74' three-story, one family townhome in a Residence Office District.
Calendar No. 03-283: 1409 West 110th
Street
Horizon
Construction
Company,
Ltd. appealed to erect a 20' x 40'
three-story, one family townhome in
a Residence Office District.
Calendar No. 03-284: 1407 West 110th
Street
Horizon
Construction
Company,
Ltd. appealed to use an approximate
28' x 65' L-shaped lot as accessory
parking for individual residential
parking spaces in a Two-Family
District.

The City Record
Calendar No. 03-208: 3715 Highland
Road
David Hinz appealed to construct
a 22’ x 40’ two-story attached garage
to the rear of a two-story dwelling
on a 40' x 444' parcel in a SingleFamily District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 03-264: 7125 Deveny
Avenue
John J. Jarosz appealed to rebuild
an 8' x 10' shed on the easterly side
and at the rear of a four dwelling
unit building in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-200: 3809 Pearl Road
Zion Pentecostal Temple appealed
to change the use of a one-story
video store building into a church
on a corner parcel located in a Local
Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 03-265: Appeal of Northeast Ohio Telephone, Inc. postponed to November 17, 2003.
Calendar No. 03-267:
Avenue postponed
24, 2003.

3906 Clinton
to November

Calendar No. 03-223: 1900 Train Avenue postponed to November 24,
2003.
On Monday, October 27, 2003, in
Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on Monday, October 20,
2003, and said decisions were approved and adopted in Executive
Session on Monday, October 27, 2003:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 03-261: 3505 Archwood
Avenue
Rick Jaworski appealed to erect a
9' high x approximately 12' wide
wooden arbor over the existing driveway at the east side of a two-family dwelling in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-150: 2087 West 7th
Street
Sutton Builders appealed to construct a 20' x 48' three-story, one
family residence with a 20' x 20'
detached garage in a Multi-Family
District.
Calendar No. 03-178: 2154 West 6th
Street
Michael McBride appealed to construct a 19' x 47' three-story, one
family residence with an attached
garage in a Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-189: 10300 Union
Avenue
Jeffrey Kirkman, Jr. appealed to
expand a 44' x 55' one-story party
center into a 44' x 106' party center building in a Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 03-248: 1233 West 67th
Street
Halle, Inc. appealed to construct a
parking lot for 15 cars on a 50' x
110' parcel in a General Industry
District.

2465

23
Calendar No. 03-249: 1229 West 67th
Street
Hallie, Inc. appealed to erect a
2100 s/f single family townhouse
unit on a 20' x 110' parcel in a General Industry District.
Calendar No. 03-250: 1227 West 67th
Street
Hallie, Inc. appealed to erect a
2100 s/f single family townhouse
unit on a 20' x 110' parcel in a General Industry District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 03-259: 764 Brayton
Avenue
Elizabeth Webb appealed to use
a 30' x 56.5' vacant lot as a parking lot for two motor vehicles and
one tow truck in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-262: 14005 Triskett
Road
Brandi Reesey appealed to install
80' linear feet of 6' high wooden
privacy fence along the side street
property
line
of
a
two-family
dwelling in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-263: 4689 State Road
C.F.A.M. LLC appealed to modify
a variance and alter a plan conditionally granted on April 29, 2002 to
expand a parking lot at the rear of
a tavern in a Local Retail Business
District.
Calendar No. 03-233: Appeal of Fuad
D. Jaser
Fuad D. Jaser appealed from the
suspension of a City of Cleveland
Hack License issued March 19,
2003.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
October 22, 2003
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket A-95-03.
RE: Appeal of Haydee Lee Tong,
Owner of the Two & One/half Story
Frame Residential Property located
on the premises known as 1538 East
34th Street (a.k.a. 1538 East 34th
Street) from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS of the Commissioner of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated June
24, 2003, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to submit plans to the Department
of Building and Housing and obtain

The City Record

24
permits, and to grant the Appellant
three (3) months in which to complete abatement of the violations;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
*

*

*

Docket A-96-03.
RE: Appeal of Preferred Builders
of Solon, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
8602 Wade Park Avenue from an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER
of
the
Commissioner of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated August
2, 2003, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
Docket A-96-03 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 5, 2003.
*

*

*

Docket A-97-03.
RE: Appeal of Beal Bank SSB,
Mortgagee of the Two & One/half
Story Residential Property located
on the premises known as 6710
Hough Avenue from a VACATE
ORDER/ 30 DAY CONDEMNATION
ORDER — MS/NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE/YARD of the Commissioner
of the Department of Building and
Housing, dated July 18, 2002, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
No action, the docket will be
rescheduled November 5, 2003.
*

*

*

Docket A-99-03.
RE: Appeal of Richard Davet,
Owner of the Two & One/half Story
Frame Residential Property located
on the premises known as 833 East
150th Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated July 22, 2003, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
Docket A-99-03 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 5, 2003.
*

*

*

Docket A-107-03.
RE: Appeal of Joseph Freund &
Rubin Freund, Owner of the Property located on the premises known
as 3339 West 65th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE
CODE of the Chief of the Division
of Fire, dated July 28, 2003, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
Docket A-107-03 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 5, 2003.

Docket A-113-03.
RE: Appeal of University Circle
Inc., Owner of the Five Story Building Property located on the premises known as 11328 Mayfield Road
from an ADJUDICATION ORDER
of the Commissioner of the Department of Building and Housing,
dated September 11, 2003, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance with the provision that the
new residential area be sprinkled
and that the one-hour separation
from the existing area does not
change the fire character of the
existing area; that a variance is
granted to utilize the conforming
windows in all suites, meaning the
living room window and a suite
with a smaller non-complying bedroom window to be used as the
access opening with signage on the
nonconforming window indicating
that it is nonconforming; that the
standpipe can be a Class 1 wet
standpipe
with
2-1/2
inch
Fire
Department connections only; that
the existing elevator can continue to
be used for all occupants of the
building; and that hardwired battery
backup smoke alarms be installed in
all units and a fire alarm system be
installed throughout. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: Mr. Saunders.
*

*

October 29, 2003
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-137-02—Accurate Plating Company.
A-71-03—2720 Van Aken Boulevard, LLC.
A-94-03—Florine B. Anthony.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Saunders for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC):
October 8, 2003
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Gallagher.
*

*

*

EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

*
NONE

Docket A-115-03.
RE: Appeal of the Bernard Group,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 2070 West
25th Street from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated September 3, 2003, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
No action, the docket will be
rescheduled for November 5, 2003.
*

*

*

Docket A-116-03.
RE: Appeal of Debra Anthony,
Owner of the Two & One/half Story
Frame Residential Property located
on the premises known as 16 Lake
Front Walk from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — RESIDENTIAL MAINTENANCE of the Commissioner of
the Department of Building and
Housing, dated September 3, 2003,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
Docket A-116-03 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
November 5, 2003.
*

*

*

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, November 12, 2003
1:30 P.M.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the Council Committee on City Planning will
hold a public hearing in the Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217,
City
Hall,
Cleveland,
Ohio,
on
Wednesday, November 12, 2003, at
1:30 P.M., to consider the following
ordinance now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 1891-03.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on West 67th Street
south of Father Caruso Drive from
General Industry to RA-2 Townhouse District (Map Change No.
2085, Sheet No. 1).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
JOSEPH C. CIMPERMAN,
Chairman
Committee on City Planning

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by

2466

_____
October 29, 2003 and November 5, 2003

October 29, 2003
CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2003
Glenville Recreation Center Playground
Improvements,
for
the
Division of Research, Planning &
Development, Department of Parks,
Recreation & Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1114-02,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 17, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT
OF
TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS ($25.00)
IN THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2003
AT 10:00 A.M., BURKE LAKEFRONT AIRPORT, 1501 NORTH
MARGINAL ROAD, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
October 22, 2003 and October 29, 2003
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2003
Pipe Repair Couplings, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.25, of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING; THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30, 2003 AT 10:30 A.M.,
DIVISION OF WATER DISTRIB-

The City Record
UTION & MAINTENANCE, PIPE
REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM,
4600
HARVARD
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
Rehabilitation of Western Avenue
(West 117th Street to West Blvd.),
for the Division of Engineering &
Construction, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 481-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 18, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT
OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2003
AT 2:00 P.M., CITY HALL, CONFERENCE ROOM 518, 601 LAKESIDE AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
October 22, 2003 and October 29, 2003
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2003
To Repair and/or Replace Water,
Sewer, and Gas Lines Damaged
By Pole Replacement, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 115103, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 16, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING; THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 30. 2003 AT 2:00 P.M.,
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
October 22, 2003 and October 29, 2003
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2003
Two (2) Pole Dinkeys (Trailers),
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1169-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 16, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2003, AT 3:00
P.M., DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST
49th
STREET,
BUILDING
#1,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.

25
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2003
Flame Resistant Clothing, for the
Division
of
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 220-01, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, March 30,
2001.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING;
FRIDAY,
NOVEMBER 7, 2003 AT 10:00 A.M.,
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY WILL NOT CONSIDER
THE BID OF ANYONE WHO
DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID CONFERENCE.
Cleaning & Maintaining the Scale
Pits at Ridge Road Transfer Station/Ridge Road Scale House, for
the Division of Waste Collection,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 116703, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 16, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER
5,
2003 AT 2:00 P.M., DIVISION OF
WASTE
COLLECTION,
5600
CARNEGIE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.
October 22, 2003 and October 29, 2003
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2003
Clean-Up and Securing of Sites, for
Various Divisions, Department of
Building and Housing, as authorized by Ordinance No. 773-03,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 2, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER
5,
2003 AT 10:00 A.M., CITY HALL,
CONFERENCE ROOM 509, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Outdoor Lighting Program (Material & Installation), for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 115403, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 16, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING; THURSDAY,
NOVEMBER 6, 2003 AT 10:00 A.M.,
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
October 22, 2003 and October 29, 2003
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2003

One (1) Yard Crane — New or Used,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1169-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 16, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2003 AT 3:30
P.M., DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST
49th
STREET,
BUILDING
#1,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.

Various Size Front-End Loaders and
Roll-Off Containers, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Service as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1257-03, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, July 16,
2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2003 AT 10:00
A.M., DIVISION OF WASTE COLLECTION, 5600 CARNEGIE AVE.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.

October 22, 2003 and October 29, 2003

October 29, 2003 and November 5, 2003

2467

The City Record

26
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2003
Waste
Collection
Facility
Site
Improvements Charles V. CarrSouth Bldg., E. 55th Street &
Carnegie Ave., for the Division of
Architecture, Department of Public Service as authorized by Ordinance No. 833-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 3, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT
OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2003
AT
10:00
A.M.,
CHARLES
V.
CARR CENTER, 5600 CARNEGIE
AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.
October 29, 2003 and November 5, 2003
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2003
Keys, Locks & Hardware, for the
Various Divisions, Department of
Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 890-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 2, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2003
AT 11:30 A.M., 601 LAKESIDE
AVE., CONFERENCE ROOM 104,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Gutter Broom Sets and Coreless
Tube Brooms, for the Division of
Streets, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 369-03, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, March 24,
2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2003
AT 10:00 A.M., 601 LAKESIDE
AVE., ROOM 26, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2003
Cold Mix, for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 36403, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, March 24, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2003 AT
10:30
A.M.,
DIVISION
OF
STREETS, ROOM 26, 601 LAKESIDE AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
Curb Bumpers and Plow Blades, for
the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 362-03,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, March 24, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2003 AT
11:00
A.M.,
DIVISION
OF
STREETS, ROOM 26, 601 LAKESIDE AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
October 29, 2003 and November 5, 2003
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2003
SS1 Tack Coat, for the Division of
Streets, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 430-03, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, May 12,
2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2003 AT
11:30
A.M.,
DIVISION
OF
STREETS, ROOM 26, 601 LAKESIDE AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
October 29, 2003 and November 5, 2003

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

October 29, 2003 and November 5, 2003
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003
High Pressure Power Washers, for
the Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1257-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 16, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003 AT
10:00 A.M., DIVISION OF WASTE
COLLECTION, 5600 CARNEGIE
AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.
Roll-Off-Haul-All Carrier Body &
Tow Body, for Various Divisions,
Department of Finance as authorized by Ordinance No. 1169-03,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, July 16, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003 AT 3:30
P.M., DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST
49TH ST., BUILDING #1, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
October 29, 2003 and November 5, 2003

Res. No. 2053-03.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 11824 Lorain
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit from PTP Dream Investments, Inc., DBA Variety Beverage,
11824 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
7107955 to Checkered Flag Beverage
and
Pizza
LTD.,
11824
Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 1414147; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed

2468

October 29, 2003
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from PTP Dream Investments,
Inc., DBA Variety Beverage, 11824
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44111, Permanent Number 7107955 to
Checkered Flag Beverage and Pizza
LTD., 11824 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number
1414147; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Res. No. 2054-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit at 8927 Cedar
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 1125-03, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to
8927 Cedar Avenue by Resolution
No. 1125-03 adopted by the Council
on June 9, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit
based upon and pursuant to a cooperation agreement by and through
City Council Representative, Patricia J. Britt and Applicant, Larry C.
Gaines, DBA Larry Gaines Florist,
8927 Cedar Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio

October 29, 2003
44106, Permanent Number 2999771, a
copy of which is in the file for this
address with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 8927
Cedar Avenue be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1125-03, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Res. No. 2055-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at
16601 Euclid Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 1297-03, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to
16601 Euclid Avenue, by Resolution
No. 1297-03 adopted by the Council
on July 16, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Roosevelt Coats and Applicant,
Ahmad Sliman, President of Hymie
Enterprises, Inc., 16601 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent Number 4101794, a copy of
which is in the file for this address
with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1,
C2 and D6 Liquor Permit to Hymie
Enterprises, Inc., 16601 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, Permanent
Number 4101794, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1297-03, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

The City Record
Res. No. 2056-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit at 8802 Superior
Avenue and repealing Resolution
No. 1132-03, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to
8802 Superior Avenue by Resolution
No. 1132-03 adopted by the Council
on June 9, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit
based upon and pursuant to a cooperation agreement by and through
City Council Representative, Fannie
M.
Lewis
and
Applicant,
Issa
Abuhamdeh, President of 8802 Superior Hawk, Inc., DBA 8802 Superior
Food Market, 8802 Superior Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent
Number 2455399-0005, a copy of
which is in the file for this address
with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 8802
Superior Avenue be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1132-03, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Res. No. 2057-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 15929 Saranac Road and
repealing Resolution No. 1678-02,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 15929 Saranac Road, by
Resolution No. 1678-02 adopted by
the Council on August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation agreement signed October 17, 2003, by and through City
Council Representative, Michael D.
Polensek and Applicants, Theodora
Petrick, President of DeBear, Inc.;
Cleveland Blount; and Sadie Blount,
15929 Saranac Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, Permanent Number 1998937, a
copy of which is in the file for this
address with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

2469

27
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to DeBear, Inc., 15929 Saranac Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 1998937, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1678-02, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Res. No. 2058-03.
By Council Members Polensek,
Conwell, Scott and Zone.
An emergency resolution strongly
urging
the
Cleveland
Municipal
School
District,
the
Cleveland
Browns and the Plain Dealer to reopen discussions for the purpose of
reinstituting the historic Charity
Game to compete for the High School
City Football Title in Cleveland.
Whereas, the Charity Game was
the Cleveland Public School Football
Championship played between the
north and south Senate football
champions for the City Title; and
Whereas, the Charity Game was
played for many years here in
Cleveland at the old Stadium on
Thanksgiving Day;
Whereas, the Charity Game has
not been played for a number of
years; and
Whereas, reinstituting the Charity
Game would build confidence, character and support for our high
school athletes and for the Cleveland Public School’s athletic programs and would draw Greater
Clevelanders to downtown Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby strongly urges the Cleveland
Municipal School District, the Cleveland Browns and the Plain Dealer
to reopen discussions for the purpose of reinstituting the historic
Charity Game to compete for the
High School City Football Title in
Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Barbara
Byrd-Bennett, CEO, Cleveland Municipal School District, Alex Macheskee, CEO and President of the Cleveland Plain Dealer and Randolph D.
Lerner, Owner, Cleveland Browns.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

28
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 1864-01.
By
Council
Members
Jackson,
Cimperman, Lewis and Patmon (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 367.12, 367.13 and 367.99 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended, by various ordinances, relating to statement of authorized use of dwelling
building or structure and notice of
violation, fee; for disbursal of funds
from escrow agent; and penalties,
and to enact new Section 367.111 of
these codified ordinances relating to
definitions.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976
Section 367.12, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Section 367.13, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1528-01, passed August 15, 2001, and
Section 367.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1006-03, passed June
10, 2003
are hereby amended to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 367.12 Statement of Authorized Use of Dwelling Building or
Structure and Notice of Violation;
Fee
(a) No person, agent, firm or corporation shall sell, by land contract
or otherwise, any interest in any
dwelling building or structure, as
defined in Section 363.04 of five or
more units, without furnishing the
buyer, prior to the sale, (i) a current certificate of occupancy or a
statement from the Department of
Building and Housing describing
the authorized use of the dwelling
under the ordinances of the City,
(ii) a copy of any outstanding
notice or order from the City, including any notice of violation or outstanding notice of the City’s intention
to
demolish
or
effectively
board, and, when an escrow has
been
established,
depositing
in
escrow prior to delivery of possession or transfer of title a statement
from the buyer acknowledging the
receipt of these documents.
However, a statement signed by both the
seller and the buyer describing the
fact that the property being transferred does not contain a dwelling
building
or
structure
may
be
deposited in escrow instead of the
documents regarding use required
herein.
(b) An application to provide the
statement required by this section
shall be accompanied by a fee of
forty dollars ($40.00).
(c) No person, agent, firm or corporation shall enter into a contract
for the sale of a one, two, three or
four unit dwelling building or structure, as defined in Section 363.04,

The City Record
without furnishing to the purchaser
a Certificate of Disclosure addressing the condition of the property,
which Certificate shall be in a form
prescribed by the Director of Building and Housing. No real estate
agent, escrow agent or seller shall
sell or transfer a one, two, three or
four unit dwelling building or structure without furnishing to the purchaser information required by the
Certificate of Disclosure described
above. If the purchaser does not
receive any portion of the Certificate of Disclosure to be completed
by the City prior to sale, the purchaser may rescind the purchase
contract for the sale of the property prior to the sale of the property.
(d) A request for a Certificate of
Disclosure shall be accompanied by
a nonrefundable fee of sixty dollars
($60.00).
Section 367.13 Disbursal of Funds
from Escrow Agent
No person, firm or corporation acting in the capacity of an escrow
agent in any real estate transaction
involving the sale of a dwelling
building or structure situated in the
City shall disburse any funds unless
the provisions of Section 367.12 have
been met.
Section 367.99 Penalty
(a) Whoever violates any provision of this Housing Code for which
no other penalty is provided or any
rule
or
regulation
promulgated
thereunder or fails to comply with
this Housing Code or with any written notice or written order issued
thereunder, or whoever refuses to
permit entry by the Housing Inspector at a reasonable hour, and whoever interferes with, obstructs, hinders or delays such housing inspector while attempting to make such
inspection shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for the first offense, and for a second or subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than one
thousand
dollars
($1,000.00),
or
imprisoned for not more than six
months or both. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which an offense
occurs or continues.
Whoever causes or permits the
continuation of any violation of this
Code or any rule or regulation promulgated hereunder or fails to comply with this Housing Code or with
any written notice or written order
issued hereunder, subsequent to conviction therefor shall be liable for
further prosecution, conviction and
punishment upon the same order or
notice without the necessity of issuing a new order or notice, until full
compliance has been had on such
order or notice upon which the original conviction was had.
(b)
Whoever
violates
Section
367.11 shall be fined not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense thereof.
(c)
Whoever
violates
Section
367.12 or 367.13 shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(d)
Whoever
violates
Section
371.01 shall receive a mandatory
fine of not less than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) nor more than one
thousand
dollars
($1,000.00)
or
imprisoned for not more than six

2470

October 29, 2003
months or both. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which an offense
occurs or continues.
(e)
Whoever
violates
Sections
369.13, 369.14, 369.15, 369.16, 369.17,
369.18, 369.19, 371.05, 371.07, 371.10 or
371.13 or Section 369.08 as a first
offense shall be fined not more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00). In
addition to any other method of
enforcement provided for in this
chapter, the above listed minor misdemeanors may be enforced by the
issuance of a citation in compliance
with Rule 4.1 of the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure. Whoever violates Sections 392.02, 392.03, 392.04,
392.05 or 392.06 is subject to the
penalty established in Section 392.99
of these Codified Ordinances. In
addition to any other means of
enforcement provided for in these
Codified Ordinances by statute, Sections 392.02, 392.03, 392.04, 392.05 or
392.06 may be enforced by the
issuance of a citation in compliance
with Rule 4.1 of the Rules of Criminal Procedure, provided that the
offense is a minor misdemeanor.
(f)
Whoever
violates
Section
369.08 as a second offense of that
section shall be fined not more than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
or imprisoned for not more than
thirty (30) days or both. Whoever
violates Section 369.08 as a third or
subsequent offense of that section
shall be fined not more than one
thousand
dollars
($1,000.00)
or
imprisoned for not more than six
months, or both.
(g) A court of competent jurisdiction may require whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this Housing Code to pay
to the City's Department of Building and Housing, fees for inspections of violation that have not been
remedied, which fee is described in
Sections 367.08 and 3105.26, and the
expenses or costs incurred under the
provisions for demolition or boarding contained in the Housing Code.
(h) The Director of Building and
Housing shall consult with the
Councilperson of each ward about
the enforcement of the provisions of
this section in their particular ward
and shall provide the Councilperson
of each ward with a written weekly report listing the violations of
this section in their particular ward.
(i) Authority to enforce the above
listed misdemeanors through issuance of a citation shall expire and
shall be of no further force and
effect two (2) years after the effective date of this section.
Section 2. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976
Section 367.12, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Section 367.13, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1528-01, passed August 15, 2001, and
Section 367.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1006-03, passed June
10, 2003
are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 367.111 to read as follows:
Section 367.111 Definitions
For purposes of Sections 367.12 and
367.13 of these codified ordinances,
the following definitions apply:

October 29, 2003
(a) Appraiser. A person who
makes an appraisement of property
to determine a just and true valuation.
(b) Buyer. A party in a real property transaction who buys or purchases real property or who contracts to buy or purchase real property. Buyer includes the grantee,
vendee or purchaser in a real property transaction.
(c) Escrow Agent. A person with
whom the seller deposits the deed
and
other
documents
or
items
regarding the sale of real property
until specified conditions are met.
(d) Loan Originator. A person who
negotiates or arranges a mortgage
loan between a person who makes
or funds mortgage loans and a
buyer; or who issues a commitment
for a mortgage loan to a buyer; or
who places, assists to place, or finds
a mortgage loan for a buyer. A loan
originator also includes a person
who
makes
or
funds
mortgage
loans.
(e) Mortgage Broker. As defined
in division (G) of Section 1322.01 of
the Revised Code, a person who
holds him, her, or itself out as being
able to assist a buyer in obtaining
a mortgage and charges or receives
from either the buyer or lender
money or other valuable consideration readily convertible into money
for providing this assistance; or a
person who solicits financial and
mortgage information from the public, provides that information to a
mortgage broker and charges or
receives from the mortgage broker
money or other valuable consideration reality convertible into money
for providing the information; or a
person engaged in table-funding or
warehouse-lending mortgage loans
that are first lien mortgage loans.
(f) Real Estate Agent. A person
licensed by Chapter 4735 of the
Revised Code to represent another
in a real estate transaction.
(g) Seller. A party in a real property transaction who sells, transfers
or grants real property or who contracts to sell, transfer or grant real
property. Seller includes the grantor,
vendor, or transferor in a real property transaction. The seller is the
transferring agent if there is no
escrow agent involved in the transaction.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 557-03.
By Council Member Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 9811 South Boulevard
to Glenville Development Corporation or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive

The City Record
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 109-07-010,
as more fully described below, to
Glenville Development Corporation
or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 109-07-010
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 183 in B. Schatzinger’s Superior
Park Subdivision No. 2 of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos.
376 and 377, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 37 of Maps, Page
5 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 50 feet front on the Northerly
side of South Boulevard, N.E., and
extending back of equal width, 120
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

2471

29
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 777-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located in the rear of 8816 Harkness Road to Jacqueline Nicholson.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 104-18-048,
as more fully described below, to
Jacqueline Nicholson.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-18-048
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 1 in Charles A. Ferguson’s Re-Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 392,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 15 of Maps, Page 23 of Cuyahoga County Records and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southwesterly
line of Harkness Avenue, N.E., at its
intersection with the Southeasterly
line of said Sublot No. 1; thence
Southwesterly along said Southeasterly line of Sublot No. 1, 64.81 feet
to its point of intersection with the
Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 21
in the W.F. Brunner Trustee’s ReAllotment, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps, Page
16 of Cuyahoga County Records,
said point being the principal place
of beginning; thence Northwesterly
along the Northwesterly prolongation of the Northeasterly line of said
Sublot No. 21, to its intersection with
the Northwesterly line of said Sublot
No. 1 in said Charles A. Ferguson
Re-Subdivision; thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of
Sublot No. 1, to the most Westerly
corner thereof; thence Southeasterly
along the Southwesterly line of said
Sublot No. 1, 33.78 feet to the most
Southerly
corner
thereof;
thence
Northeasterly along the Southeasterly line of Sublot No. Sublot No. 1, 80

30
feet to the principal place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 786-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1272 East 90th Place
to Virginia Ervin Greene.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell

The City Record
Permanent Parcel No(s). 107-11-039,
as more fully described below, to
Virginia Ervin Greene.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 107-11-039
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
27 in the New Park Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 384, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 24 of Maps, Page
26 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 32 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 90th Place (formerly
Nansen Street), and extending back
of equal width 100 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 936-03.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and
located
at
4705-15
Clinton
Avenue to James Maher and Judy
Maher.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and

2472

October 29, 2003
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 002-13-037,
as more fully described below, to
James Maher and Judy Maher.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-13-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
33 and part of Sublots Nos. 32 and
34 in Jacob Perkins Subdivision of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lots Nos. 50 and 51 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps,
Page
19
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line
of Clinton Avenue, N.W., at the
Northwesterly corner of land conveyed to Helen C. Mugridge and
Edwin R. Mugridge by deed dated
September 26, 1951 and recorded in
Volume 7405, Page 297 of Cuyahoga
County Records; Thence Westerly
along the Southerly line of Clinton
Avenue, N.W., 73 feet 11 inches to
the Northeasterly corner of land
conveyed to Kareem T. Salem and
Sophie Salem by deed dated January 13, 1953 and recorded in Volume
8017, Page 55 of Cuyahoga County
Records; Thence Southerly along
the Easterly line of land so conveyed to Kareem T. Salem and
Sophie Salem, 158 feet 9 inches to
the Northerly line of Vine Court,
N.W.; Thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of Vine Court, N. W.,
68 feet 11 inches to the Southwesterly corner of land conveyed to
James W. Massinghill and Rosa
Lee Massinghill by deed dated
April 9, 1958 and recorded in Volume 9074, Page 276 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Northerly
along the Westerly line of land so
conveyed to James V. and Rosa Lee
Massinghill, 67 feet to the Northwesterly corner thereof; Thence
Easterly along the Northerly line of
land so conveyed to James W. and
Rosa Lee Massinghill, 5 feet to the
Southwesterly corner of land conveyed to Helen C. and Edwin R.
Mugridge,
as
aforesaid;
Thence
Northerly along the Westerly line
of land conveyed to Helen C. and
Edwin R. Mugridge, 91 feet nine
inches to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Easement
recorded
in
Volume
2610, Page 379 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Zoning Ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance

October 29, 2003
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 1229-03.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 2087 West 45th Street
to Patricia Zayas and Edwin Zayas.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 006-20-047,
as more fully described below, to
Patricia Zayas and Edwin Zayas.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:

The City Record
P. P. No. 006-20-047
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
22 in Taylor and Hoyt’s Subdivision
of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos 48 amd 49, now in said
City. Said Sublot No. 22 has a
frontage of 40 feet on the Easterly
side of Taylor Street (now West
45th Street) and extends back of
equal width 131-6/12 feet deep as per
plat of said Subdivision recorded in
Volume 1 of Maps, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same
more less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 1504-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Superior Avenue to
Nazeh Brek and Sami N. Abosalah.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio

2473

31
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-14-054, as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Nazeh Brek and Sami N. Abosalah.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-14-054
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 11, 12 and 13 in Marianne B. Sterling’s Re-Allotment of
M.M. Spangler’s Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 343 as shown by the recorded
plat of said Re-Allotment in Volume
4 of Maps, Page 10 of Cuyahoga
County Records and together forming a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 59th Street (formerly Rockford
Street) at its point of intersection
with the Northerly line of Superior
Avenue, N.E., (formerly Superior
Street) 80 feet wide; thence Easterly along said Northerly line of Superior Avenue N.E., about 95.60 feet to
a point at the Southwesterly corner
of land conveyed by Fred A. Niebes
and Nettie N. Niebes to the City of
Cleveland by deed dated September
29, 1906 and recorded in Volume
1059, Page 445 of Cuyahoga County
Records; which point is also the
intersection of the Westerly line of
East 60th Street with the Northerly line of Superior Avenue; thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
land so conveyed to the City of
Cleveland, about 116 feet to the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 11;
thence Westerly along the Northerly line of said Sublot Nos. 11, 12 and
13 about 96.79 feet to said Easterly
line of East 59th Street; thence
Southerly along said Easterly line
of East 59th Street about 115 feet to
the place of beginning, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by

32
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 1505-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on West 19th Street to
Ward A. Hines, Jr.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 004-01-059
and
004-01-060,
as
more
fully
described below, to Ward A. Hines,
Jr.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 004-01-059
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 49 in Averell and Bradford’s Grove Allotment of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
70, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 6 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Records, said part of
Sublot
No.
49
is
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Westerly line of West 19th Street, 60 feet
wide, distant Northerly, measured
along said Westerly line, 19.78 feet
from the Southeasterly corner of
said Sublot No. 49; thence Westerly

The City Record
parallel with the Southerly line of
said Sublot No. 49, a distance of
100.00 feet to a point in the Easterly line of West 20th Place; thence
Northerly along the Easterly line of
West 20th Place distance of about
20.29 feet to the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 49; thence
Easterly along the Northerly line of
said Sublot No. 49; a distance of
100.00 feet to a point in the Westerly line of West 19th Street; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
West 19th Street, a distance of about
20.29 feet to the place of beginning,
be the same more less, but subject
to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 004-01-060
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as Sublot No. 50 in
the Averill and Bradford Allotment
of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 70, as shown by the
recorded plat in said Allotment in
Volume 6 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Records, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the West side of
West 19th (formerly Smith Street)
at the Northwest corner of land formerly owned by Edward Greene;
thence North along the West line of
West 19th Street 38 feet; thence
West at right angles 100 feet to the
East line of an alley; thence south
along the East line of said alley 38
feet; thence East at right angles 100
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

2474

October 29, 2003
Ord. No. 1507-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 5613 Whittier Avenue
to Raymond P. Nicholson and Vivian
B. Nicholson.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 104-18-072
and
104-18-073,
as
more
fully
described below, to Raymond P
Nicholson and Vivian B. Nicholson.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-18-072
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
98 in Luther Moses Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 340 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 13
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Northerly
side of Whittier Avenue, N.E., (formerly Sixth Street) and extending
back between parallel lines 180 feet
deep, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 104-18-073
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
97 in Luther Moses Subdivision of
part of Original 100 Acre Lot No.
340, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 13 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 40 feet front on the Northerly
side of Whittier Avenue, Formerly
Sixth Avenue, and extending back
of equal width 180 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are

October 29, 2003
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 1517-03.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Greater
Cleveland
Fire
Fighters
Credit
Union, Inc. to provide for a ten year
sixty percent tax abatement for personal and real property improvements to construct a new facility in
the Emerald Corporate Park in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council designated an area which is in
the City of Cleveland and described
in File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone contains the characteristics in Section
5709.61(A) of the Revised Code and
certified the area as an “Urban Jobs
and Enterprise Zone” under Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code; and
Whereas, the Greater Cleveland
Fire Fighters Credit Union, Inc. (the
“Enterprise”) has proposed to construct a new facility located in the
Emerald Corporate Park in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City it would be at a
competitive disadvantage operating
at this location if taxes on real and
personal
property
improvements
were not abated; and

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property, and welfare and that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, and the
assistance is immediately necessary
or jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council approves the application of the Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives
on the basis that the Enterprise is
qualified by financial responsibility
and business experience to create
and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone and to improve the economic climate of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise to provide for a ten year sixty
percent (60%) tax abatement for
personal and real property improvements as an incentive to construct
a facility in the Emerald Corporate
Park in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; the abatement shall be
subject to annual review of the Tax
Incentive Review Council. That the
Agreement shall also provide that
the Greater Cleveland Firefighters
Credit Union located at 2300 St.
Clair Avenue shall remain open and
operating as a credit union for the
ten-year term of the tax abatement
or the City shall require repayment
of the amount of the taxes that
would have been payable had the
property not been exempt from taxation.
Section 3. That the terms of the
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 1517-03A. These terms shall not be amended, nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferrable to any
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
listed in Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve the
agreement and that the agreement
shall contain the terms and provisions the director deems necessary
to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

2475

33
Ord. No. 1709-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on St. Clair Avenue to
Clara Trotter and Manuel Trotter.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 111-01-009, as
more fully described below, to Clara
Trotter and Manuel Trotter.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 111-01-009
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublots
Nos. 63 and 64 in L.M. Southern’s
Victoria Park Allotment of a part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
363, as shown by the recorded plat
of said Allotment in Volume 23 of
Maps, Page 4 of the Cuyahoga County Records. Said Sublot No. 63 has a
frontage of 51-05/100 feet on the
Northerly side of St. Clair Avenue
N.E., and extends back 134-59/100
feet on the Easterly line, 144-90/100
feet on the Westerly line, and has a
rear line of 50 feet, as appears by
said plat. Said Sublot No. 64 has a
frontage of 51-05/100 feet on the
Northerly side of St. Clair Avenue
N.E., and extends back 124-90/100
feet on the Easterly line, 135-21/100
feet on the Westerly line, and has a
rear line of 50 feet, as appears by
said plat, and the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Zoning Ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.

34
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 1710-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 3924 West 21st Street
to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 009-02-082, as
more fully described below, to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 009-02-082
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
19 in Curtiss Ambler and Pixley’s
Subdivision of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 74 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 21 of Maps, Page 12 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
West 21st Street and extending back
100 feet on the Southerly line which
is also the Northerly line of Kenneth
Avenue,
S.W.,
100
feet
on
the
Northerly line and having a rear
line of 40 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.

The City Record
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 1711-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 6311 Hough Avenue
to Crystal M. Jones.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-21-030, as
more fully described below, to Crystal M. Jones.

2476

October 29, 2003
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-21-030
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot Nos. 115 and 116 and the
Westerly part of Sublot No. 117 in
the Park Realty Company’s Re-Subdivision of Sublot Nos. 16 to 35 and
50 to 65 inclusive and a part of
Sublot Nos. 36 and 66 in Johnson,
Bates and Stones Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 340 as shown by the recorded
plat of said Re-Subdivision in Volume 26 of Maps, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Records, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at the Southwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 115 on the
Northerly line of Hough Avenue
N.E. (60 feet wide); thence Northerly, along the Westerly line of
Sublot No. 115, 109.92 feet to the
Northwesterly
corner
thereof;
thence Easterly, along the Northerly lines of Sublot Nos. 115, 116 and
117 about 94.57 feet to a point;
thence Southerly, in a direct line
109.91 feet to a point in the Northerly line of said Hough Avenue, N.E.
said point being Easterly, measured
along said Northerly line of Hough
Avenue, N.E. 94.97 feet from the
place of beginning; thence Westerly, 94.97 feet to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

October 29, 2003
Ord. No. 1802-03.
By Council Members Reed, Conwell, Britt, Zone and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
employ one or more professional
consultants to perform an assessment on the feasibility of implementing
a
311
Citizen
Contact
Response System and a Reverse 911type Interactive Community Notification System.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to
provide professional services necessary to perform an assessment on
the feasibility of implementing a 311
Citizen Contact Response System
and a Reverse 911-type Interactive
Community Notification System.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Finance
from a list of qualified consultants
available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Finance
for the purpose of compiling a list.
The compensation to be paid for the
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Finance, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001,
54 SF 001, 58 SF 001, and 11 SF 006,
Request No. 100361.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 1850-03.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 6 of Ordinance No. 76-03,
passed March 24, 2003, relating to
authorizing the Director of Public
Safety to apply for and accept a
grant from the Ohio Department of
Youth Services for the Juvenile
Accountability
Incentive
Block
Grant Programs and to enter into
contracts with various entities necessary to implement the Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record

35

Section 1. That Section 6 of Ordinance No. 76-03, passed March 24,
2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
implementation of the program as
described in the application contained in the file with the following
agencies in the following amounts:
Police Athletic
League

$15,000.00

Berea Children’s Home
Assessments

4,812.00

Berea Children’s Home
MST

7,040.00

Berea Children’s Home
Community Mental Health
8,236.79
Berea Children’s Home
Sub Abuse Group Couns.
1,904.00
Berea Children’s Home
Sub Abuse Indiv. Couns.
2,007.21
Partnership For A Safer
Cleveland

40,000.00

Section 2. That existing Section 6
of Ordinance No. 76-03, passed March
24, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 1853-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1770 Crawford Road
to Laverne Carter and James Carter.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is hereby authorized to
sell Permanent Parcel No(s). 119-03032, as more fully described below,
to
Laverne
Carter
and
James
Carter.

2477

Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-03-032
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 10 in the Subdivision
made by Eliza Hough and the heirs
of Oliver Hough of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 391 and
392, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 21 of
Cuyahoga County Records bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Northwesterly line of Crawford Road,
N.E., 38.01 feet Southwesterly from
its intersection with the Northerly
line of said Sublot; thence Westerly
126.78 feet to a point 30.87 feet
Southerly from the Northerly line of
said Sublot; thence Southerly 35.68
feet to the Northerly line of Brookline Avenue, N.E., (formerly Crawford Place), said Northerly line of
Brookline Avenue, N.E. running parallel with and 90 feet Northerly from
the Southerly line of said Sublot No.
10 which Southerly line is also the
Southerly line of said Original Lot
No. 391; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of said Brookline
Avenue, N.E. 101.66 feet to the Northwesterly line of Crawford Road,
N.E.; thence Northeasterly along
said Northwesterly line, 43.64 feet to
the place of beginning, said premises are also known as a part of
Sublot No. 21 in a proposed Subdivision intended to be made by F.B.
Fox, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

36
Ord. No. 1854-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 100th Street to
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 121-18-134,
121-18-135, 121-18-136 and 121-18-129,
as more fully described below, to
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 121-18-134
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
57 in Jane Sayle and others’ Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 409 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 14 of
Maps, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 100th
Street (formerly Streater Avenue)
and extending back if equal width
125 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 121-18-135
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
59 in Jane Sayle and others’ Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 409 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 14 of
Maps, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County
Records.
Said Sublot No. 59 has a
frontage of 40 feet on the Easterly
side of East 100th Street (formerly
Streator Avenue) and extends back
between parallel lines 125 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P. P. No. 121-18-136
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
60 in the Jane Sayle and others’ Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 409, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 14
of Maps, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40 feet front

The City Record
on the Easterly line of East 100th
Street and extending back between
parallel lines 125 feet deep, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 121-18-129
Parcel No. 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
58 in Jane Sayle and others’ Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 409, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 14 of
Maps, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 100th
Street, (formerly Streator Avenue)
and extending back of equal width
125 feet deep, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland.
The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 1855-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 6101 White Avenue
to Greater Cleveland Habitat for
Humanity, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, adminis-

2478

October 29, 2003
tered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 104-17-053,
as more fully described below, to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-17-053
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
97 in White Manufacturing Company’s Allotment of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 340 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 12 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 45
feet front on the Northerly side of
White Avenue, N.E., and extending
back between parallel lines 144 feet
deep on the Easterly line, 144 feet
deep on the Westerly line, which is
also along the Easterly line of East
61st Street, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland.
The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

October 29, 2003
Ord. No. 2045-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts with Cleveland State
University to provide an assessment
of neighborhood community development activities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Cleveland State University to provide an assessment of
neighborhood community development activities.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall not exceed $75,000 and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 14 SF 028 and
14 SF 029, Request No. 125751.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 2050-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to cause
payment of registration fees, travel
expenses, and hotel expenses necessary for members and employee’s of
Cleveland City Council to attend
National League of Cities.
Whereas, National League of Cities
coordinates an annual convention to
assist municipal legislators in serving their constituents; and
Whereas, this convention includes
educational sessions on issues and
concerns
affecting
local
governments; and
Whereas, members and employees
of Cleveland City Council have traditionally attended this annual convention; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to cause
payment of registration fees, travel
expenses, and hotel expenses necessary for members and employees of
Cleveland City Council to attend
National League of Cities.
Section 2. That the payments hereby authorized shall be paid from
Fund No. 01 SF 001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

The City Record
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 2051-03.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a grant agreement
with
Westown
Community
Development Corporation for their
Beacon Light Safety program in
order to carry out the public purpose
of providing educational programming to the residents of the City of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
19 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement
with
Westown
Community
Development Corporation for their
Beacon Light Safety program in
order to carry out the public purpose
of providing educational programming of the residents of the City of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
19 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 2052-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with St. Clair Superior
Neighborhood Development Association for their Business District
Greenspace Improvement program
in order to carry out the public purpose of beautification through the
use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

2479

37
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with St. Clair Superior Neighborhood
Development
Association
for their Business District Greenspace
Improvement
program
in
order to carry out the public purpose
of beautification through the use of
Ward
13
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $10,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all. the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
front and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

Ord. No. 2059-03.
By Council Members Conwell and
Scott.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1. of Ordinance No. 82803, passed May 12, 2003 as it pertains to the Senior Computer Literacy program through the use of
Wards 8 and 9 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1. of Ordinance No. 828-03, passed May 12, 2003
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement effective from May 12, 2003 to
December 31, 2003 with the Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation for providing a Senior
Computer
Literacy
program
in
order to carry out the public purpose of providing educational programming
through
the
use
of
Wards 8 and 9 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1. of Ordinance No. 828-03, passed May 12, 2003
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

The City Record

38
Ord. No. 2060-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1. of Ordinance No. 23202, passed February 11, 2002 as it
pertains to the At Risk Youth and
Family Services Program through
the use of Ward 9 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1, of Ordinance No. 232-02, passed February
11, 2002 is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community
Development
Department is authorized to enter into an
agreement effective from September
1, 2002 to December 31, 2003 with the
CCCS/St. Martin de Porres Family
Center for the At Risk Youth and
Family Services Program for the
public purpose of providing after

school activities for disadvantaged
youth residing in the City of Cleveland through the use of Ward 9
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1. of Ordinance No. 232-02, passed February
11, 2002 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed October 20, 2003.
Effective October 22, 2003.

October 29, 2003
Employment: Lewis, Chair; Conwell,
Vice Chair; Cintron, Coats, Reed,
Polensek. Authorized Absence: Johnson.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present in
Finance: Jackson, Chair; Sweeney,
Vice Chair; Brady, Coats, Gordon,
O’Malley, Reed. Authorized Absence:
Britt.
Wednesday, October 29, 2003
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present
in Safety: Reed, Chair; Brady, Cimperman,
Coats,
Conwell,
Jones,
White, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Britt, Vice Chair.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, October 27, 2003
11:00 a.m.
Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: Present in

1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present in Public Utilities: Coats, Chair;
Brady, Cintron, Jones, Polensek,
Sweeney,
Westbrook,
Zone.
Authorized Absence: O’Malley, Vice
Chair.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Carnegie Avenue, 6512, (Ward 5) – Accurate Plating Company c/o Charles A. Foley, owner
- appeal adopted on 10/22/03 (Doc. A-137-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466
East 150th Street, 833, (Ward 10) – Richard Davet, owner - appeal postponed to 11/05/03
on 10/22/03 (Doc. A-99-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466
East 34th Street, 1538, (a.k.a. 1538 East 34th Street), (Ward 13) – Haydee Lee Tong,
owner - appeal resolved on 10/22/03 (Doc. A-95-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Hough Avenue, 6710, (Ward 7) – Beal Bank SSB, mortgagee - appeal rescheduled to 11/05/03
on 10/22/03 (Doc. A-97-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466
Lake Front Walk, 16, (Ward 11) – Debra Anthony, owner - appeal postponed to 11/05/03 on
10/22/03 (Doc. A-116-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466
Mayfield Road, 11328, (Ward 9) – University Circle Inc., owner - appeal resolved on
10/22/03 (Doc. A-113-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466
Stevenson Road, 920, (Ward 10) – Florine B. Anthony, owner - appeal adopted on 10/22/03
(Doc. A-94-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466
Van Aken Boulevard, 2776, (a.k.a. 2720-82 Van Aken Boulevard), (Ward 6) – 2720 Van Aken
Boulevard, LLC, owner - appeal adopted on 10/22/03 (Doc. A-71-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466
Wade Park Avenue, 8602, (Ward 7) – Preferred Builders of Solon, owner - appeal postponed
to 11/05/03 on 10/22/03 (Doc. A-96-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466
West 25th Street, 2070, (Ward 13) – Bernard Group, owner - appeal rescheduled to 11/05/03
on 10/22/03 (Doc. A-115-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466
West 65th Street, 3339, (Ward 17) – Joseph Freund & Rubin Freund, owner
- appeal postponed to 11/05/03 on 10/22/03 (Doc. A-107-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466

Board of Control - Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase 2 Continuation, Sound Attenuation (Islamic
Mosque) - per Ord. 930-95, 469-98 and 327-2000 - all bids rejected - Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 619-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459

2480

October 29, 2003

The City Record

39

Board of Control - Community Development Department
Barber Avenue (Ward 14) - PPN 007-24-002 (southerly part) - to Nael D. Shehadeh - amend
BOC Res. 592-03 (BOC Res. 642-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2464
Colgate Avenue, 6809 (Ward 17) - PPN 006-10-101 - to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. per
Ord. 1516-03 (BOC Res. 633-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462
Consortium for Economic and Community Development Inc. - various parcels
on scattered sites (Ward 7) per Ord. 1511-03 (BOC Res. 640-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2463
East 153rd Street, 3852 (Ward 3) - PPN 139-17-034 - to Mt. Pleasant Now Development
Corporation per Ord. 1514-03 (BOC Res. 636-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462
East 76th Street (Ward 7) - PPN 105-32-081 - to Josephine M. Copley per Ord. 1513-03
(BOC Res. 632-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461
East 82nd Street, 1580-82 (Ward 7) - PPN 107-09-095 - to Queen E. Kizer per Ord. 1512-03
(BOC Res. 635-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462
East 82nd Street (Ward 7) - PPN 106-07-077/078/079 - to Stephanie Hunter per Ord. 1509-03
(BOC Res. 638-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2463
East 93rd Street, 3298 (Ward 5) - PPN 127-11-011 - to Love Center Interdenominational Church
per Ord. 692-03 (BOC Res. 634-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462
Green Road (Ward 10) - PPN 117-31-014 - to Tony H. Smith, Sr. per Ord. 1230-03 (BOC Res. 630-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461
Lexington Avenue, 6211 (Ward 7) - PPN 104-19-037 - to Helen Wilson per Ord. 1508-03
(BOC Res. 631-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461
St. Clair Avenue, 12409 (Ward 10) - PPN 111-11-002 - to Frances Shelby per Ord. 222-02
(BOC Res. 639-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2463
Treadway Avenue (Ward 15) - PPN 009-21-017 - to Jamie Marquardt and Deborah Marquardt per
Ord. 930-03 (BOC Res. 637-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462

Board of Control - Finance Department
Copiers, high volume (Group V) maintenance - per Ord. 886-03 - all bids
rejected (BOC Res. 615-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2458
Fireboat rehabilitation - contract per Ord. 1169-03 to The Great Lakes Towing
Company (BOC Res. 617-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459
Office supplies - approve subcontractors - Contract #57586 per BOC Res. 768-02 (BOC Res. 614-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2458
Photocopiers, high volume (Group IV) - per Ord. 885-03 - all bids rejected (BOC Res. 616-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2458
Sell PPN 101-26-045/070 in Euclid-Prospect II Community Development Plan - to MRN Limited
Partnership per Ord. 27-01, 2409-A-01 (BOC Res. 641-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2463

Board of Control - House of Corrections
HVAC, emergency and electrical design - contract per Ord. 838-02 to Ralph Tyler Companies
- Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 620-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program
Barber Avenue (Ward 14) - PPN 007-24-002 (southerly part) - to Nael D. Shehadeh - amend
BOC Res. 592-03 (BOC Res. 642-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2464
Colgate Avenue, 6809 (Ward 17) - PPN 006-10-101 - to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. per
Ord. 1516-03 (BOC Res. 633-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462
Consortium for Economic and Community Development Inc. - various parcels
on scattered sites (Ward 7) per Ord. 1511-03 (BOC Res. 640-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2463
East 153rd Street, 3852 (Ward 3) - PPN 139-17-034 - to Mt. Pleasant Now Development
Corporation per Ord. 1514-03 (BOC Res. 636-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462
East 76th Street (Ward 7) - PPN 105-32-081 - to Josephine M. Copley per Ord. 1513-03
(BOC Res. 632-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461
East 82nd Street, 1580-82 (Ward 7) - PPN 107-09-095 - to Queen E. Kizer per Ord. 1512-03
(BOC Res. 635-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462
East 82nd Street (Ward 7) - PPN 106-07-077/078/079 - to Stephanie Hunter per Ord. 1509-03
(BOC Res. 638-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2463
East 93rd Street, 3298 (Ward 5) - PPN 127-11-011 - to Love Center Interdenominational
Church per Ord. 692-03 (BOC Res. 634-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462
Green Road (Ward 10) - PPN 117-31-014 - to Tony H. Smith, Sr. per Ord. 1230-03 (BOC Res. 630-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461
Lexington Avenue, 6211 (Ward 7) - PPN 104-19-037 - to Helen Wilson per Ord. 1508-03
(BOC Res. 631-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461

2481

The City Record

40

October 29, 2003

St. Clair Avenue, 12409 (Ward 10) - PPN 111-11-002 - to Frances Shelby per Ord. 222-02
(BOC Res. 639-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2463
Treadway Avenue (Ward 15) - PPN 009-21-017 - to Jamie Marquardt and Deborah Marquardt per
Ord. 930-03 (BOC Res. 637-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward )
Barber Avenue (Ward 14) - PPN 007-24-002 (southerly part) - to Nael D. Shehadeh - amend
BOC Res. 592-03 (BOC Res. 642-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2464

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 3)
East 153rd Street, 3852 (Ward 3) - PPN 139-17-034 - to Mt. Pleasant Now Development
Corporation per Ord. 1514-03 (BOC Res. 636-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 5)
East 93rd Street, 3298 (Ward 5) - PPN 127-11-011 - to Love Center Interdenominational Church per
Ord. 692-03 (BOC Res. 634-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 7)
Consortium for Economic and Community Development Inc. - various parcels
on scattered sites (Ward 7) per Ord. 1511-03 (BOC Res. 640-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2463
East 76th Street (Ward 7) - PPN 105-32-081 - to Josephine M. Copley per Ord. 1513-03
(BOC Res. 632-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461
East 82nd Street, 1580-82 (Ward 7) - PPN 107-09-095 - to Queen E. Kizer per Ord. 1512-03
(BOC Res. 635-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462
East 82nd Street (Ward 7) - PPN 106-07-077/078/079 - to Stephanie Hunter per Ord. 1509-03
(BOC Res. 638-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2463
Lexington Avenue, 6211 (Ward 7) - PPN 104-19-037 - to Helen Wilson per Ord. 1508-03
(BOC Res. 631-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 10)
Green Road (Ward 10) - PPN 117-31-014 - to Tony H. Smith, Sr. per Ord. 1230-03 (BOC Res. 630-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461
St. Clair Avenue, 12409 (Ward 10) - PPN 111-11-002 - to Frances Shelby per Ord. 222-02
(BOC Res. 639-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2463

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 15)
Treadway Avenue (Ward 15) - PPN 009-21-017 - to Jamie Marquardt and Deborah Marquardt per
Ord. 930-03 (BOC Res. 637-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program (Ward 17)
Colgate Avenue, 6809 (Ward 17) - PPN 006-10-101 - to Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. per
Ord. 1516-03 (BOC Res. 633-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2462

Board of Control - Land Sales
Sell PPN 101-26-045/070 in Euclid-Prospect II Community Development Plan - to MRN Limited
Partnership per Ord. 27-01, 2409-A-01 (BOC Res. 641-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2463

Board of Control - Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to Admiral Truck Parts, Inc.
- Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 626-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to Lakefront Automotive Parts, Inc.
- Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 623-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to Perkins Motor Services, LTD. Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 627-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to Servco Products, Inc. - Dept.
of Public Service (BOC Res. 624-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460

2482

October 29, 2003

The City Record

41

Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to The Cleveland Ignition Co., Inc.
- Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 622-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to TruckPro, Inc. - Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 625-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460

Board of Control - Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Fire alarm services at City buildings - contract per Ord. 299-01 to Simplex Grinnell, LP
- Division of Property Management, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 629-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461

Board of Control - Port Control Department
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase 2 Continuation, Sound Attenuation (Islamic
Mosque) - per Ord. 930-95, 469-98 and 327-2000 - all bids rejected - Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 619-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459

Board of Control - Professional Service Contracts
HVAC, emergency and electrical design at House of Corrections - contract per Ord. 838-02
to Ralph Tyler Companies - Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 620-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459

Board of Control - Property Management Division
Fire alarm services at City buildings - contract per Ord. 299-01 to Simplex Grinnell, LP
- Division of Property Management, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 629-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461

Board of Control - Public Safety Department
Elevator service and maintenance at Third District Police Station - contract
per Ord. 1008-03 to Kone, Inc. (BOC Res. 628-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461

Board of Control - Public Service Department
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to Admiral Truck Parts, Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 626-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to Lakefront Automotive Parts, Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 623-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to Perkins Motor Services, LTD. Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 627-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to Servco Products, Inc. - Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 624-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to The Cleveland Ignition Co., Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 622-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to TruckPro, Inc. - Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 625-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
HVAC, emergency and electrical design at House of Corrections - contract per Ord. 838-02
to Ralph Tyler Companies (BOC Res. 620-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459
Underground duct installation - contract per Ord. 371-03 to Perk Co., Inc. - Division of
Traffic Engineering (BOC Res. 621-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459

Board of Control - Public Utilities Department
Fencing, repair and install - contract per Ord. 1150-03 to Able Contracting Group, Inc.
- Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 618-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459

2483

The City Record

42

October 29, 2003

Board of Control - Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell PPN 101-26-045/070 in Euclid-Prospect II Community Development Plan - to MRN Limited
Partnership per Ord. 27-01, 2409-A-01 (BOC Res. 641-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2463

Board of Control - Requirement Contracts
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to Admiral Truck Parts, Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 626-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to Lakefront Automotive Parts, Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 623-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to Perkins Motor Services, LTD. Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 627-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to Servco Products, Inc. - Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 624-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to The Cleveland Ignition Co., Inc.
- Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 622-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459
Automotive and truck parts - contract per Ord. 806-03 to TruckPro, Inc. - Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 625-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2460
Elevator service and maintenance at Third District Police Station - contract
per Ord. 1008-03 to Kone, Inc. - Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 628-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461
Fencing, repair and install - contract per Ord. 1150-03 to Able Contracting Group, Inc.
- Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 618-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459
Fireboat rehabilitation - contract per Ord. 1169-03 to The Great Lakes Towing Company Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 617-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459
Office supplies - approve subcontractors - Contract #57586 per BOC Res. 768-02 - Dept.
of Finance (BOC Res. 614-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2458
Underground duct installation - contract per Ord. 371-03 to Perk Co., Inc. - Division of
Traffic Engineering, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 621-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459

Board of Control - Standard Purchase Contracts
Fire alarm services at City buildings - contract per Ord. 299-01 to Simplex Grinnell, LP
- Division of Property Management, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 629-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2461

Board of Control - Traffic Engineering Division
Underground duct installation - contract per Ord. 371-03 to Perk Co., Inc. - Dept.
of Public Service (BOC Res. 621-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459

Board of Control - Water Pollution Control Division
Fencing, repair and install - contract per Ord. 1150-03 to Able Contracting Group, Inc.
- Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 618-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2459

Board of Zoning Appeals - Report
Archwood Avenue, 3505, (Ward 15) – Rick Jaworski, owner - appeal granted and adopted on
10/27/03 (Cal. 03-261) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Brayton Avenue, 764, (Ward 13) – Elizabeth Webb, owner - appeal denied and adopted
on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-259) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Clinton Avenue, 3906, (Ward 13) – Scott Francis, owner - appeal postponed to 11/24/03 on
10/27/03 (Cal. 03-267) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Detroit Avenue, 10933, (Ward 19) – Horizon Construction Company, Ltd., owner
- appeal heard on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-281) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Detroit Avenue (A), 10929, (Ward 19) – Horizon Construction Company, Ltd., owner - appeal
heard on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-280) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Detroit Avenue (B), 10937, (Ward 19) – Horizon Construction Company, Ltd., owner - appeal
heard on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-282) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Deveny Avenue, 7125, (Ward 12) – John J. Jarosz, owner - appeal heard on 10/27/03
(Cal. 03-264) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Highland Road, 3715, (Ward 19) – David Hinz, owner appeal heard on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-208) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465

2484

October 29, 2003

The City Record

43

Jaser, Fuad D. – appeal denied and adopted on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-233) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Northeast Ohio Telephone, Inc. – - appeal postponed to 11/17/03 on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-265) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Pearl Road, 3809, (Ward 15) – Zion Pentecostal Temple, owner, c/o Bishop Pope, agent appeal heard on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-200) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 6720, (Ward 13) – Jane Prijatel, owner - appeal heard on 10/27/03
(Cal. 03-269) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
State Road, 4689, (Ward 16) – C.F.A.M. LLC, c/o Grant Croxton - appeal denied and adopted
on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-263) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Train Avenue, 1900, (Ward 14) – Lesuer Enterprises Incorporated, owners, c/o Richard
Lesuer - appeal postponed to 11/24/03 on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-223) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Triskett Road, 14005, (Ward 21) – Brandi Reesey, owner - appeal denied and adopted
on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-262) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
Union Avenue, 10300, (Ward 3) – Jeffrey Kirkman, Jr., owner, and Robert Kirkman, agent
- appeal granted and adopted on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-189). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
West 110th Street, 1409, (Ward 19) – Horizon Construction Company, Ltd., owner - appeal
heard on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-283) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
West 110th Street, 1411, (Ward 19) – Horizon Construction Company, Ltd., owner - appeal
heard on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-284) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
West 67th Street, 1227, (Ward 17) – Hallie, Inc., owner, and their agent, Miriam Colen
- appeal granted and adopted on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-250). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
West 67th Street, 1229, (Ward 17) – Hallie, Inc., owner, and their agent, Miriam Colen
- appeal granted and adopted on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-249). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
West 67th Street, 1233, (Ward 17) – Hallie, Inc., owner, and their agent, Miriam Colen
- appeal granted and adopted on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-248). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
West 6th Street, 2154, (Ward 13) – Michael McBride, owner, c/o, Niagra Homes Ltd., agent
- appeal granted and adopted on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-178). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465
West 7th Street, 2087, (Ward 13) – Sutton Builders, owner c/o Keith Sutton, agent
- appeal granted and adopted on 10/27/03 (Cal. 03-150). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2465

Board of Zoning Appeals - Schedule
East 104th Street, 3587, (Ward 2) – Debra Dowd, owner - appeal to be heard on 11/10/03
(Cal. 03-286) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2464
East 33rd Street, 2207, (Ward 5) – Cellie Pittman, owner - appeal to be heard on 11/10/03
(Cal. 03-287) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2464
Fairfield Avenue, 1012, (Ward 13) – Leah Sanford, owner - appeal to be heard on 11/10/03
(Cal. 03-278) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2464
Hubbard Avenue, 6512, (Ward 12) – Eric Jones, owner - appeal to be heard on 11/10/03
(Cal. 03-298) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2464
Way Avenue, 9410, (Ward 2) – Londell Edwards, owner - appeal to be heard on 11/10/03
(Cal. 03-277) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2464
West 25th Street, 1859, (Ward 14) – Heil Block, Inc. c/o Jeff Allison, owner - appeal to
be heard on 11/10/03 (Cal. 03-293) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2464
Woodland Avenue, 9300, (Ward 4) – Coleman Trucking c/o Mark Coleman, owner, and Sam Kash,
tenant - appeal to be heard on 11/10/03 (Cal. 03-276) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2464

Bonds
Economic Development Revenue Bonds — Lower Euclid Avenue Project — amend Ord. 983-03
(O 2095-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2450

Buckeye Area Development Corporation
Buckeye Area Housing Rehabilitation Program — Ward 4 NEF (O 2104-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2454

Building and Housing Division
Dwelling, building or structure, statement of authorized use and notice
of violation, fee; for disbursal of funds from escrow agent; and penalties — amend
Code Sections 367.12, 367.13 and 367.99 (O 1864-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2470

2485

The City Record

44

October 29, 2003

Burke Lakefront Airport
AirSports Aviation, LTD — Lease Agreement — office space (O 1690-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
American Flyers, Inc. — Lease Agreement — office space (O 1693-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
Circadian Knight Corp. dba TOP GUN — Lease Agreement — office space(O 1692-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
T & G Flying Club, Inc. — Lease Agreement — office space (O 1694-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456

City of Cleveland Bids
Carrier body, roll-off haul all and tow body - Department of Finance - per Ord. 1169-03
- bid due November 19, 2003(advertised 10/29/2003 and 11/5/2003). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2468
Charles V. Carr South Building site improvements - Department of Public Service Division of Architecture - per Ord. 833-02 - bid due November 13, 2003(advertised 10/29/2003 and 11/5/2003) 2468
Clothing, flame resistant - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Cleveland Public
Power - per Ord. 220-01 - bid due November 13, 2003(advertised 10/22/2003 and 10/29/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2467
Cold mix - Department of Public Service - Division of Streets - per Ord. 364-03 - bid due
November 20, 2003(advertised 10/29/2003 and 11/5/2003). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2468
Crane, yard - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance - per
Ord. 1169-03 - bid due November 12, 2003(advertised 10/22/2003 and 10/29/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2467
Curb bumpers and plow blades - Department of Public Service - Division of Streets - per
Ord. 362-03 - bid due November 20, 2003(advertised 10/29/2003 and 11/5/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2468
Front-end loaders and roll-off containers - Department of Public Service - Division of
Waste Collection and Disposal - per Ord. 1257-03 - bid due November 12,
2003(advertised 10/29/2003 and 11/5/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2467
Glenville Recreation Center playground improvements - Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties - Division of Research, Planning and Development - per Ord. 1114-02 - bid
due November 5, 2003(advertised 10/22/2003 and 10/29/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2467
Gutter broom sets and coreless tube brooms - Department of Public Service - Division of
Streets - per Ord. 369-03 - bid due November 14, 2003(advertised 10/29/2003 and 11/5/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2468
Keys. locks and hardware - Department of Finance - per Ord. 890-03 - bid due November 14,
2003(advertised 10/29/2003 and 11/5/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2468
Outdoor lighting program materials and installation - Department of Public Utilities Division of Cleveland Public Power - per Ord. 1154-03 - bid due November 14,
2003(advertised 10/22/2003 and 10/29/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2467
Pipe repair couplings - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Water per C.O. Sec. 129.25 - bid due November 6, 2003(advertised 10/22/2003 and 10/29/2003). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2467
Pole dinkeys (trailers) - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance - per Ord. 1151-03 - bid due November 12, 2003(advertised 10/22/2003 and 10/29/2003) . . . . . . . . 2467
Scale pit cleaning and maintenance at Ridge Road Transfer Station/Scale House
- Department of Public Utilities - Division of Waste Collection and Disposal - per
Ord. 1167-03 - bid due November 13, 2003(advertised 10/22/2003 and 10/29/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2467
Site clean up and securing - Department of Building and Housing - per Ord. 773-03 - bid
due November 14, 2003(advertised 10/22/2003 and 10/29/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2467
SS1 tack coat - Department of Public Service - Division of Streets - per Ord. 430-03 bid due November 20, 2003(advertised 10/29/2003 and 11/5/2003). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2468
Washers, high pressure power - Department of Public Service - Division of Waste
Collection and Disposal - per Ord. 1257-03 - bid due November 19, 2003(advertised
10/29/2003 and 11/5/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2468
Water, sewer and gas line repair damaged by pole replacement - Department of Public
Utilities - Division of Cleveland Public Power - per Ord. 1151-03 - bid due November
7, 2003(advertised 10/22/2003 and 10/29/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2467
Western Avenue rehabilitation (W. 117th St. to West Blvd.) - Department of Public Service
- Division of Engineering and Construction - per Ord. 481-02 - bid due November 6,
2003(advertised 10/22/2003 and 10/29/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2467

City Council
National League of Cities — payment (O 2050-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2479

City Planning Commission
W. 67th St.— — south of Father Caruso Drive — change the zoning — RA-2 Townhouse
District (O 1891-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466

2486

October 29, 2003

The City Record

45

Clerk of Council
National League of Cities — payment (O 2050-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2479

Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
HMSHost, formerly known as Host International, Inc. — rent credits — Concession
Agreement No. 42575 (O 2089-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

Cleveland Housing Network
W. 21st St., 3924 — Land Reutilization Program (O 1710-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2476

Cleveland Municipal School District
Charity Game — discussions to reinstitute — urging Cleveland Municipal School District,
the Cleveland Browns and the Plain Dealer (R 2058-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2469

Cleveland Public Power
Revenue — retention and use — general fund from tax remittances — Cleveland
Public Power — apply — $2 million — collected tax remittances (O 2088-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2449

Cleveland State University
Assessment of neighborhood community development activities (O 2045-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2479

Cleveland Theater District
Cleveland Theater District (“District”) — additional security — cleaning and
maintenance — public right-of-way and Star Plaza (R 2094-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2448

Codified Ordinances
Dwelling, building or structure, statement of authorized use and notice
of violation, fee; for disbursal of funds from escrow agent; and penalties — amend
Code Sections 367.12, 367.13 and 367.99 (O 1864-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2470
Publications and services — fees — amend Sec. 113.12 (O 2102-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453

Collective Bargaining Agreements
Treasurers and Tickets Sellers Union, Local 756 — amend Sec. 42 of Ord. No. 384-03
(O 2096-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2452

Communications
Cleveland Theater District — Report of activities and the financial condition for 2002
(F 2114-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Public Hearing Notice — — Bishop Samuel Threats (F 1503-03-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Public Hearing Notice — Kevin L. Smith, John Henry Ball, Jr., Daniel Canzone, Robert A.
Contorno. (F 1177-03-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445

Community Development
Assessment of neighborhood community development activities — Cleveland State University
(O 2045-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2479
At Risk Youth and Family Services Program — amend Ord. 232-02 — Ward 9 NEF (O 2060-03) . . . . . . . . 2480
Buckeye Area Development Corp. — Buckeye Area Housing Rehabilitation Program — Ward 4
NEF (O 2104-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2454

2487

The City Record

46

October 29, 2003

Clinton Ave., 4705-15 — Land Reutilization Program — James Maher and Judy Maher
(O 936-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2472
Crawford Rd., 1170 — Land Reutilization Program — Laverne Carter and James Carter
(O 1853-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2477
Custom Enrichment Center — Corlett Empowerment Program — Ward 2 NEF (O 2105-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2454
Dwelling, building or structure, statement of authorized use and notice
of violation, fee; for disbursal of funds from escrow agent; and penalties — amend
Code Sections 367.12, 367.13 and 367.99 (O 1864-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2470
E. 100th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation
(O 1854-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2478
E. 90th Pl., 1272 — Land Reutilization Program — Virginia Ervin Greene (O 786-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2472
Harkness Rd., 8816 — Land Reutilization Program — Jacqueline Nicholson (O 777-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2471
Hough Ave., 6311 — Land Reutilization Program — Crystal M. Jones (O 1711-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2476
Senior Computer Literacy program — amend Ord. 828-03 — Wards 8 and 9 NEF (O 2059-03). . . . . . . . . . . . 2479
South Blvd., 9811 — Land Reutilization Program — Glenville Development Corporation
(O 557-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2471
St. Clair Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Clara Trotter and Manuel
Trotter (O 1709-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2475
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Dev. Assoc. — Business District Greenspace Improvement
program — Ward 13 NEF (O 2052-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2479
Superior Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Nazeh Brek and Sami N. Abosalah
(O 1504-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2473
Superior Ave., 6914 — Land Reutilization Program — 6920 Superior LLC. (O 1510-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
W. 19th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Ward A. Hines, Jr. (O 1505-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2474
W. 21st St., 3924 — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(O 1710-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2476
W. 45th St., 2087 — Land Reutilization Program — Patricia Zayas & Edwin Zayas
(O 1229-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2473
Westown Community Dev. Corp. — Beacon Light Safety program — educational programming
— Ward 19 NEF (O 2051-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2479
White Ave., 6101 — Land Reutilization Program — Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity,
Inc. (O 1855-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2478
Whittier Ave., 5613 — Land Reutilization Program — Raymond P. Nicholson and Vivian B.
Nicholson (O 1507-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2474

Concession Agreements
HMSHost, formerly known as Host International, Inc. — rent credits — Concession
Agreement No. 42575 — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 2089-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

Condolences
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Danaceau, Hugh (R 2121-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
DeLeva, Mrs. Jean (R 2125-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Hardnick, Ivory Jean (R 2123-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
James, Rev. John D. (R 2124-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Kimble, Gloria Mae (R 2122-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

Congratulations
Cross, Commander Marvin (R 2131-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Hunt, Calvin & Beatrice (R 2128-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Holy Name Society (R 2126-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Reidy, William J. (R 2129-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Wilberg, Rev. Rick J. (R 2130-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Wise, Joseph (R 2127-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

Contracts
Assessment of neighborhood community development activities — Cleveland State University
(O 2045-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2479

2488

October 29, 2003

The City Record

47

Economic Development Department
Arbor Park Place LLC — grant agreement — security costs — Longwood Plaza (O 2099-03) . . . . . . . . . . . 2447
Cleveland Theater District (“District”) — additional security — cleaning and
maintenance — public right-of-way and Star Plaza (R 2094-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2448
E. 55th & Woodland Ave. (S.W. corner) — declaration of covenants and restrictions
(O 2100-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2448
Economic Development Revenue Bonds — Lower Euclid Avenue Project — amend Ord. 983-03
(O 2095-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2450
Glenville Development Corp. — grant agreement — holiday street beautification project
— Glenville neighborhood (O 2093-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2449
Greater Cleveland Fire Fighters Credit Union, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — new
facility — Emerald Corporate Park (O 1517-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2475
New Village Corp. — amend Ord. 1978-01 — East 40th & Quincy Ave. (O 2101-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2448

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Greater Cleveland Fire Fighters Credit Union, Inc. — new facility — Emerald Corporate
Park (O 1517-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2475

Fees
Publications and services — fees — amend Sec. 113.12 (O 2102-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453

Finance Department
311 Citizen Contact Response System — Reverse 911-type Interactive Community
Notification System — assessment (O 1802-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2477
Economic Development Revenue Bonds — Lower Euclid Avenue Project — amend Ord. 983-03
(O 2095-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2450
Revenue — retention and use — general fund from tax remittances — Cleveland
Public Power — apply — $2 million — collected tax remittances (O 2088-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2449

Glenville Development Corporation
Holiday street beautification project — grant agreement — Glenville neighborhood
(O 2093-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2449
South Blvd., 9811 — Land Reutilization Program (O 557-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2471

Grants
Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant Programs — amend Ord. 76-03 (O 1850-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2477

Highland Park Golf Course
Highland and Senaca Golf Courses — requirement contracts to maintain and operate
(O 2092-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2447

Land Reutilization Program
Clinton Ave., 4705-15 — James Maher and Judy Maher (O 936-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2472
Crawford Rd., 1170 — Laverne Carter and James Carter (O 1853-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2477
E. 100th St. — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. (O 1854-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2478
E. 90th Pl., 1272 — Virginia Ervin Greene (O 786-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2472
Harkness Rd., 8816 — Jacqueline Nicholson (O 777-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2471
Hough Ave., 6311— Crystal M. Jones (O 1711-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2476
South Blvd., 9811— Glenville Development Corporation (O 557-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2471
St. Clair Ave. — Clara Trotter and Manuel Trotter (O 1709-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2475
Superior Ave. — Nazeh Brek and Sami N. Abosalah (O 1504-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2473
Superior Ave., 6914 — 6920 Superior LLC. (O 1510-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
W. 19th St. — Ward A. Hines, Jr. (O 1505-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2474
W. 21st St., 3924 — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. (O 1710-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2476
W. 45th St., 2087 — Patricia Zayas & Edwin Zayas (O 1229-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2473
White Ave., 6101 — Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity, Inc. (O 1855-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2478
Whittier Ave., 5613 — Raymond P. Nicholson and Vivian B. Nicholson (O 1507-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2474

2489

The City Record

48

October 29, 2003

Lease Agreement
AirSports Aviation, LTD — office space —(O 1690-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
American Flyers, Inc. — office space —(O 1693-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
Circadian Knight Corp. dba TOP GUN — office space —(O 1692-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
T & G Flying Club, Inc. — office space —(O 1694-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456

Liquor Permits
Buckeye Rd., 8805 — objection — withdraw (Ward 4) (R 2108-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2455
Cedar Ave., 8927 — objection - withdraw (Ward 6) (R 2054-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2468
Clark Ave., 4105-07 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 2118-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
E. 116th St., 3790 — (a.k.a. 3790 Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive) — objection - withdraw
(Ward 2) (R 2112-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
E. 140th St., 3918 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 2109-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2455
E. 185th St., 568 — transfer (Ward 11) (F 2117-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Euclid Ave., 16601 — objection — withdraw (Ward 10) (R 2055-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2469
Front Ave., 1071 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 2115-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 2113-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
Lakewood Heights Blvd., 13429 — objection (Ward 19) (R 2106-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2454
Lorain Ave., 11824 — objection (Ward 19) (R 2053-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2468
Lorain Ave., 11824 — objection — withdraw (Ward 19) (R 2110-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2455
Riverside Dr., 5300 — new (Ward 20) (F 2116-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Saranac Rd., 15929 — objection — withdraw (Ward 11) (R 2057-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2469
Superior Ave., 8802 — — objection — withdraw (Ward 7) (R 2056-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2469
W. 117th St., 3349 — objection (Ward 19) (R 2107-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2455
W. 130th St., 4200 — objection - withdraw (Ward 19) (R 2111-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456

Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division (MVM)
Anti-freeze — purchase (O 1976-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
APO Holdings, Inc. — requirement contracts — Ingersoll Rand air compressor parts
(O 1979-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2458
Automotive paint and supplies — purchase (O 1973-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
E.J. Ward, Inc. — requirement contracts — spare replacement parts — fuel control
terminals & telephone consultation (O 1969-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Finley Fire Equipment Co., Inc. — requirement contracts — Pierce fire apparatus parts
(O 1977-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Ford Vehicle parts — purchase (O 1981-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2458
Generators — repair (O 1972-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Hertz Equipment Rental Corp. — requirement contracts — Sullivan air compressor parts
(O 1980-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2458
Hydraulic cylinders, pumps, motors, valves, fuel injectors, drive shaft gear boxes and
trailers - repair (O 1971-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Leach packer parts — amend Ord. No. 808-03 (O 1804-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Maltese Fire Equipment Co. — requirement contracts — Duplex Cab — chassis fire
apparatus parts — LTI and Grumman fire apparatus parts (O 1978-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2458
Remanufactured vehicle transmissions — purchase (O 1974-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Tires — purchase (O 1970-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Vehicle frames & vehicles alignments — repair (O 1975-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457

Neighborhood Equity Funds
At Risk Youth and Family Services Program — amend Ord. 232-02 — Ward 9 (O 2060-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2480
Buckeye Area Development Corp. — Buckeye Area Housing Rehabilitation Program — Ward 4
(O 2104-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2454
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
Custom Enrichment Center — Corlett Empowerment Program — Ward 2 (O 2105-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2454
Senior Computer Literacy program — amend Ord. 828-03 — Wards 8 and 9 (O 2059-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2479

2490

October 29, 2003

The City Record

49

St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Dev. Assoc. — Business District Greenspace Improvement
program — Ward 13 (O 2052-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2479
Westown Community Dev. Corp. — Beacon Light Safety program — educational programming
— Ward 19 (O 2051-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2479

Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Lorain Ave. — between W. 41st St. & W. 65th St. — rehabilitation — Local Project
Administration agreement with ODOT (O 2090-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
Electrical motors and pumps — purchase — Division of Property Management (O 1889-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Highland and Senaca Golf Courses — requirement contracts to maintain and operate
(O 2092-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2447
West Side Market — approving the schedule of prices — various parts and sections
(O 2091-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2447

Plat
Montana Townhouse Redevelopment — Resubdivision plat — Ward 5 (F 2119-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445

Personnel Department
Treasurers and Tickets Sellers Union, Local 756 — collective bargaining agreement
— amend Sec. 42 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 2096-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2452

Port Control Department
AirSports Aviation, LTD — Lease Agreement — office space — Burke Lakefront
Airport (O 1690-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
American Flyers, Inc. — Lease Agreement — office space — Burke Lakefront Airport
(O 1693-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
Circadian Knight Corp. dba TOP GUN — Lease Agreement — office space — Burke Lakefront
Airport (O 1692-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
HMSHost, formerly known as Host International, Inc. — rent credits — Concession
Agreement No. 42575 — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 2089-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
T & G Flying Club, Inc. — Lease Agreement — office space — Burke Lakefront
Airport (O 1694-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456

Public Hearings (Notices)
W. 67th St.— — south of Father Caruso Drive — change the zoning — RA-2 Townhouse
District (O 1891-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466

Recognition
Partners In Action (R 2133-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
The Cleveland Play House (R 2132-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

Resolutions - Miscellaneous
Charity Game — discussions to reinstitute — urging Cleveland Municipal School District,
the Cleveland Browns and the Plain Dealer (R 2058-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2469
Mayo County, Parish of Achill, Ireland — sister city (R 2098-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2454

Safety Department
Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant Programs — grant — amend Ord. 76-03
(O 1850-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2477

2491

The City Record

50

October 29, 2003

Salaries
Treasurers and Tickets Sellers Union, Local 756 — collective bargaining agreement
— amend Sec. 42 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 2096-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2452

Seneca Golf Course
Highland and Senaca Golf Courses — requirement contracts to maintain and operate
(O 2092-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2447

Service Department
Anti-freeze — purchase - Div. of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 1976-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
APO Holdings, Inc. — requirement contracts — Ingersoll Rand air compressor parts - Div.
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 1979-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2458
Automotive paint and supplies — purchase - Div. of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 1973-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Cleveland Theater District (“District”) — additional security — cleaning and
maintenance — public right-of-way and Star Plaza (R 2094-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2448
E.J. Ward, Inc. — requirement contracts — spare replacement parts — fuel control
terminals & telephone consultation - Div. of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 1969-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Finley Fire Equipment Co., Inc. — requirement contracts — Pierce fire apparatus parts
- Div. of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 1977-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Ford Vehicle parts — purchase - Div. of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 1981-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2458
Generators — repair - Div. of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 1972-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Hertz Equipment Rental Corp. — requirement contracts — Sullivan air compressor parts
- Div. of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 1980-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2458
Hydraulic cylinders, pumps, motors, valves, fuel injectors, drive shaft gear boxes and
trailers — repair - Div. of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 1971-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Leach packer parts — amend Ord. No. 808-03 - Div. of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 1804-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Lorain Ave. — between W. 41st St. & W. 65th St. — rehabilitation — Local Project
Administration agreement with ODOT (O 2090-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Maltese Fire Equipment Co. — requirement contracts — Duplex Cab — chassis fire
apparatus parts — LTI and Grumman fire apparatus parts - Div. of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance (O 1978-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2458
Remanufactured vehicle transmissions — purchase - Div. of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 1974-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Tires — purchase - Div. of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (O 1970-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457
Vehicle frames & vehicles alignments — repair - Div. of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(O 1975-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2457

Sister Cities
Mayo County, Parish of Achill, Ireland (R 2098-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2454

Streets - Name
Alfred Lerner Way — rename — Cleveland Browns Football Stadium Roadway (O 2097-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . 2452

Utilities Department
Revenue — retention and use — general fund from tax remittances — Cleveland
Public Power — apply — $2 million — collected tax remittances (O 2088-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2449

Ward 01
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
Hunt, Calvin & Beatrice — congratulation (R 2128-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

2492

October 29, 2003

The City Record

51

Ward 02
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
Custom Enrichment Center — Corlett Empowerment Program — NEF (O 2105-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2454
E. 116th St., 3790 — (a.k.a. 3790 Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive) — objection —
withdraw — liquor permit (R 2112-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456

Ward 03
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
E. 140th St., 3918 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2109-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2455
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2113-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
Waters, Congresswoman Maxine — welcome (R 2135-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

Ward 04
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Buckeye Rd., 8805 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2108-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2455
Buckeye Area Development Corp. — Buckeye Area Housing Rehabilitation Program — NEF
(O 2104-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2454
Kimble, Gloria Mae — condolence (R 2122-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Wise, Joseph — congratulation (R 2127-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

Ward 05
Arbor Park Place LLC — grant agreement — security costs — Longwood Plaza (O 2099-03) . . . . . . . . . . . 2447
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
E. 55th & Woodland Ave. (S.W. corner) — declaration of covenants and restrictions
(O 2100-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2448
Kimble, Gloria Mae — condolence (R 2122-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Montana Townhouse Redevelopment — Resubdivision plat — Ward 5 (F 2119-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
New Village Corp. — amend Ord. 1978-01 — East 40th & Quincy Ave. (O 2101-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2448
Reidy, William J. — congratulation (R 2129-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Waters, Congresswoman Maxine — welcome (R 2135-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

Ward 06
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cedar Ave., 8927 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2054-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2468
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
E. 100th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation
(O 1854-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2478

Ward 07
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Crawford Rd., 1170 — Land Reutilization Program — Laverne Carter and James Carter
(O 1853-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2477
E. 90th Pl., 1272 — Land Reutilization Program — Virginia Ervin Greene (O 786-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2472
Harkness Rd., 8816 — Land Reutilization Program — Jacqueline Nicholson (O 777-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2471
Hough Ave., 6311 — Land Reutilization Program — Crystal M. Jones (O 1711-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2476
Superior Ave., 6914 — Land Reutilization Program — 6920 Superior LLC. (O 1510-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
Superior Ave., 8802 — — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2056-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2469
White Ave., 6101 — Land Reutilization Program — Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity,
Inc. (O 1855-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2478

2493

The City Record

52

October 29, 2003

Whittier Ave., 5613 — Land Reutilization Program — Raymond P. Nicholson and Vivian B.
Nicholson (O 1507-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2474

Ward 08
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
Glenville Development Corp. — grant agreement — holiday street beautification project
— Glenville neighborhood (O 2093-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2449
Hardnick, Ivory Jean — condolence (R 2123-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
James, Rev. John D. — condolence (R 2124-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Partners In Action — recognition (R 2133-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Senior Computer Literacy program — amend Ord. 828-03 — Wards 8 and 9 NEF (O 2059-03). . . . . . . . . . . . 2479
South Blvd., 9811 — Land Reutilization Program — Glenville Development Corporation
(O 557-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2471
The Cleveland Play House — recognition (R 2132-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

Ward 09
At Risk Youth and Family Services Program — amend Ord. 232-02 — NEF (O 2060-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2480
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
Senior Computer Literacy program — amend Ord. 828-03 — Wards 8 and 9 NEF (O 2059-03). . . . . . . . . . . . 2479
St. Clair Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Clara Trotter and Manuel
Trotter (O 1709-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2475
The Cleveland Play House — recognition (R 2132-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

Ward 10
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Euclid Ave., 16601 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2055-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2469
Simba Maasai Outreach Organization — welcome (R 2134-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

Ward 11
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
E. 185th St., 568 — transfer — liquor permit (F 2117-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Saranac Rd., 15929 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2057-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2469

Ward 12
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453

Ward 13
Alfred Lerner Way — rename — Cleveland Browns Football Stadium Roadway (O 2097-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . 2452
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
Cleveland Theater District (“District”) — additional security — cleaning and
maintenance — public right-of-way and Star Plaza (R 2094-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2448
Front Ave., 1071 — transfer — liquor permit (F 2115-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445

2494

October 29, 2003

The City Record

53

Lorain Ave. — between W. 41st St. & W. 65th St. — rehabilitation — Local Project
Administration agreement with ODOT (O 2090-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Dev. Assoc. — Business District Greenspace Improvement
program — NEF (O 2052-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2479
Superior Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Nazeh Brek and Sami N. Abosalah
(O 1504-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2473
W. 19th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Ward A. Hines, Jr. (O 1505-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2474

Ward 14
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Clark Ave., 4105-07 — transfer — liquor permit (F 2118-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
Lorain Ave. — between W. 41st St. & W. 65th St. — rehabilitation — Local Project
Administration agreement with ODOT (O 2090-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
W. 45th St., 2087 — Land Reutilization Program — Patricia Zayas & Edwin Zayas
(O 1229-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2473

Ward 15
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
W. 21st St., 3924 — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(O 1710-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2476

Ward 16
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453

Ward 17
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
Clinton Ave., 4705-15 — Land Reutilization Program — James Maher and Judy Maher
(O 936-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2472
DeLeva, Mrs. Jean — condolence (R 2125-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Lorain Ave. — between W. 41st St. & W. 65th St. — rehabilitation — Local Project
Administration agreement with ODOT (O 2090-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Holy Name Society — congratulation (R 2126-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
W. 67th St.— — south of Father Caruso Drive — change the zoning — RA-2 Townhouse
District (O 1891-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466

Ward 18
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
Cross, Commander Marvin — congratulation (R 2131-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Danaceau, Hugh — condolence (R 2121-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Wilberg, Rev. Rick J. — congratulation (R 2130-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

2495

The City Record

54

October 29, 2003

Ward 19
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
Lakewood Heights Blvd., 13429 — objection — liquor permit (R 2106-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2454
Lorain Ave., 11824 — objection — liquor permit (R 2053-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2468
Lorain Ave., 11824 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2110-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2455
W. 117th St., 3349 — objection — liquor permit (R 2107-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2455
W. 130th St., 4200 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 2111-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2456
Westown Community Dev. Corp. — Beacon Light Safety program — educational programming
— NEF (O 2051-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2479

Ward 20
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453
Riverside Dr., 5300 — new — liquor permit (F 2116-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445

Ward 21
Britt, William Taylor, Sr. — condolence (R 2120-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2445
Cleveland Fire Fighter’s Memorial Relocation/Enhancement Project — amend Ord. 1034-03
— Ward (s) 13, 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 NEF
(O 2103-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2453

Welcome
Simba Maasai Outreach Organization (R 2134-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446
Waters, Congresswoman Maxine (R 2135-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2446

West Side Market
West Side Market — approving the schedule of prices — various parts and sections
(O 2091-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2447

Zoning
W. 67th St.— — south of Father Caruso Drive — change the zoning — RA-2 Townhouse
District (O 1891-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2466

2496

October 29, 2003

The City Record

PPPP

55

