The City Record
O fficial Publication of the Council of the City of Cleve l a n d

January the Eighth, Two Thousand and Three

Jane L. Campbell
Mayor

Frank G. Jackson
President of Council

Valarie J. McCall
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
13
13
13
13
14
14
15
15
15
15
16

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Frank G. Jackson
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed ..........................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell...........................................774 East 131st Street
Roosevelt Coats .........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr........................................4326 Daisy Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
Matthew Zone ..........................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ......................................1278 West 103rd Street
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44108
44112
44119
44105
44113
44109
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
Rodney Jenkins, Executive Assistant
David M. McGuirk, Executive Assistant
Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant
Craig Tame, Executive Assistant
Henry Guzman, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officer
DEPT. OF LAW – Subodh Chandra, Director, Galen L. Schuerlein, Acting
Chief Counsel, Room 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Cleo Henderson, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael G. Konicek, Director,
1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John C. Mok, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie
Avenue.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll, Acting Director, Mural
Building, 1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS: Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland
House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
Environment – Willie Bess, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Health – Dr. Wendy Johnson, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – James A. Draper, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police \ Edward F. Lohn, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES –James Glending,
Acting Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.

Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director, 3rd
Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Sharon Dumas, Commissioner.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES –Eduardo A. Romero,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Steven Sims, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Lorna Wisham, Director;
Mayor Jane L. Campbell, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Kevin Conwell, Councilman Matthew Zone,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President;
Rev. Earl Preston, Vic e President; Jonalyn M. Krupka, Sec retary;
Members: Diane M. Downing, Matthew Dotson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell, President; Betsy Hruby,
Asst. Sec’y.; Robert H. Baker, Director; Council President Frank G.
Jackson.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;
Members; Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver-Washington,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room
516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; James Williams, Arthur Saunders, Alternate
Members – D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Subodh Chandra,
Pre sident; Finance Direc tor Robert H. Baker, Secretary; Council
President Frank G. Jackson.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law
Director Subodh Chandra; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Subodh
Chandra; Utilities Director Michael G. Konicek; Council President Frank
G. Jackson.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Christopher S. Ronayne,
Director; Anthony J. Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Chairman;
Finance Director Robert H. Baker; Council President Frank G. Jackson;
Councilman Dona Brady; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman;
Earl S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule,
Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLE VE LAN D LAND MARKS COMMISS ION – R oo m 5 19 – R ic hard
Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush,
James Gibans, Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen
Schuerlein, Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Dwayne J.
Simpson, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Emanuella Groves
12B
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Michael E. Flanagan–Court Administrator,
Paul J. Mizerak–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Gregory F. Clifford–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2003

Vol. 90

No. 4648

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 6, 2003
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook,
Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt, Dolan, Gordon, Reed,
Rybka.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

VALARIE J. McCALL
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, O’Malley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Scott, Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00
vices
Zone,
well,

P.M. — Health & Human SerCommittee: Britt, Chairman;
Vice Chairman; Cintron, ConGordon, Scott, Polensek.

1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Scott, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley,
Vice
Chairman;
Brady,
Cintron,
Jones, Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka,
Vice
Chairman,
Conwell,
Lewis,
O’Malley, Scott, Westbrook.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman; O’Malley, Reed, Sweeney.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 6, 2003.
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Conwell,
Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, O’Malley, Polensek,
Reed, Rybka, Scott, Sweeney, Westbrook, White and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Campbell and Directors Chandra, Baker,
Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Draper,
Hudecek,
Romero,
Sims,
Taylor,
Wisham, Guzman, Ronayne, Acting
Directors Carroll, Glending; Executive Assistants Jenkins, McGuirk,
Tame, Mueller, Celeste Glascow,
Director of Communications; Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison; Jeffrey D. Johnson,
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officers, Paula Morrison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the Council Meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Rev. Joe
Milano of the Church of the Living

11

God, located at 9403 Garfield Boulevard. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Jones the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Brady.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 1-03.
From the Lutheran Metropolitan
Ministry — 2001 Annual Report, A
Day in the Life of Community ReEntry. Received.
File No. 2-03.
From the Intercontinental Hotel &
Conference Center — I Vision, Winter 2003. Received.
File No. 3-03.
From the Division of Purchases
and Supplies re: Mayor’s Emergency
Requisitions/Purchase Orders — no
orders for the month of December
2002. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 4-03.
Re: New Application — 60690860005
— Mizrah Zkout, Inc., d.b.a. Tom’s
Market, 4324 Warner Road. (Ward
12). Received.
File No. 5-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership
cation — 2466088 — El
Restaurant, Inc., d.b.a. El
Restaurant, 3038 Scranton
(Ward 14). Received.

AppliTaino
Taino
Road.

CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No.
Res. No.
Res. No.
Res. No.
Res. No.
Stevens.
Res. No.
Res. No.
Res. No.

21-03—George B. Kasik.
22-03—Florene Morgan.
23-03—Leon Bibb, Sr.
24-03—Bennie Ware.
25-03—Matthew William
26-03—Tommy Vilfroy.
27-03—Stephanie Turner.
28-03—Diane Newsome.

CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 29-03—James Whitley, Jr.
Res. No. 30-03—John J. Schneider.

The City Record

4
Res. No. 31-03 — Laurence B. Puchajda, Jr.
Res. No. 32-03—William P. Lally.
Res. No. 33-03 — Eva Laverne
Daniels.
Res. No. 34-03—Melissa E. Saladonis.
Res. No. 35-03—Danny Cameron.
Res. No. 36-03—Kelly Holcom.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 37-03—Lady “Barbara” Gilmore.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 6-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into an amendment to Contract No. 57651 with Montgomery
Watson & Harza.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into an amendment to City
Contract No. 57651, between the
City of Cleveland and Montgomery
Watson & Harza, to perform Phase
II
of
the Citywide
Geographic
Information System (“GIS”) Project. Phase II will include, but is
not limited to implementation, data
conversion, software, maintenance
in hardware and software, training,
QA/QC, parcel conversion, application development of manuals and
optional tasks.
All other terms and conditions
contained in the original contract
shall remain the same.
Section 2. That the amendment
authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law and shall contain the terms and conditions as
the Director deems necessary to
protect
and benefit
the
public
interest.
Section 3. That the cost of the
amendment shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 52 SF 001, 52 SF 223, 52 SF 225,
52 SF 227, 52 SF 229, 52 SF 231 and
from the fund and subfunds which
are credited the proceeds of the sale
of future waterworks revenue bonds
which include and which are appropriated for this purpose, Request No.
131736.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.

Ord. No. 7-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to enter into an
agreement with the communities of
the Euclid Creek Watershed Council; and authorizing the Mayor to
designate a City official to serve in
his or her official capacity as the
representative to the Steering Committee of the Euclid Creek Watershed Council.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has joined with other communities
to address common environmental,
storm water and development concerns in the Euclid Creek Watershed; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
desires to participate in a Watershed Council to promote interjurisdictional cooperation in addressing
watershed issues in the Euclid
Creek Watershed including cooperation with a Euclid Creek Watershed
Coordinator to develop a watershed
plan for the Euclid Creek; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares that the City wishes to participate in the Watershed Council
and authorizes the Mayor to enter
into an agreement with the communities of the Euclid Creek Watershed Council to establish the roles
and responsibilities of the participating communities and to promote
interjurisdictional
cooperation
in
watershed planning in the Euclid
Creek and coordination of Phase II
Storm water activities of participating communities.
Section 2. That the Mayor may
appoint one City official to serve as
the City of Cleveland’s representative to Steering Committee of the
Euclid Creek Watershed Council to
represent the City and the City’s
interest. The representative shall
serve in his or her official capacity.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 8-03.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to authorize the issuance and sale of subordinated Airport Revenue Notes in
the aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $48,500,000, in anticipation
of the issuance of Bonds, to retire
outstanding notes issued to pay
costs of acquiring real property and
interests in real property for the
purpose of improving the airport
system.

12

January 8, 2003
Whereas, under authority of Ordinance No. 492-01 passed by the Council on April 30, 2001, the City issued
$44,950,000 Taxable Airport Surplus
Revenue Notes, Series 2001 (the
“Outstanding Notes”) to retire an
original issue of notes authorized by
Ordinance No. 78-99 passed January
14, 1999 and issued for the purpose
of acquiring real property and interests therein for the future expansion
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport; and
Whereas, the Outstanding Notes
may be redeemed prior to maturity
on March 1, 2003, and the City has
determined that redeeming the Outstanding Notes on that date will
enable the City to achieve debt service savings, based on the current
conditions in the financial markets,
and, as a result, the City has determined to issue the Notes authorized
by Section 3 to provide funds to
redeem the Outstanding Notes on
March 1, 2003 or, if that is no longer
advantageous, to retire the Outstanding Notes at maturity on June
1, 2003; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition to
the
words
and
terms
elsewhere
defined in this Ordinance, unless the
context or use clearly indicates another or different meaning or intent:
“Airport” means Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, as it now
exists or hereafter may be changed,
modified, or expanded.
“Airport System” means the Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport,
as they now exist or hereafter may
be changed, modified or expanded.
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
book entry interests in Notes and
the principal of and interest on the
Notes
may
be
transferred
only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Note certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Notes
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
book entry interests in those Notes
and that principal and interest.
“Certificate of Award” means, the
certificate authorized by Section 11,
to be signed by the Director of
Finance, setting forth and determining those terms or other matters
pertaining to the Notes and their
issuance, sale, and delivery, as this
Ordinance requires or authorizes to
be set forth or determined therein.
“Continuing
Disclosure
Certificate” means, collectively, the certificate or certificates authorized by
Section 14, which, together with the
agreements of the City set forth in
that Section, shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and book entry owners
of the Notes in accordance with the
Rule.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
a letter of credit, an insurance policy, or other credit enhancement or
liquidity device provided to enhance
the security or liquidity of the
Notes.

January 8, 2003
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of book entry
interests in Notes or the principal
and interest, and to effect transfers
of Notes, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Financial Advisor” means with
respect to the Notes or any hedging
transaction authorized by this Ordinance, Government Capital Management, L.L.C. or Columbia Equity
Financial Corp., or any financial
advisory firm or firms retained by
the City, from time to time, acting
jointly or singly.
“Indenture” means the Trust Indenture, dated as of November 1,
1976, between the City and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to The Cleveland Trust Company), as Trustee,
together with all supplements thereto.
“Note Proceedings” means, collectively, this Ordinance, the Certificate of Award, the Purchase Agreement, any trust agreement, any Continuing Disclosure Certificate, and
such other proceedings of the City,
including the Notes, that provide collectively for, among other things,
the rights of holders and beneficial
owners of the Notes.
“Original Purchaser” means the
original purchasers of the Notes:
Bear Stearns & Co. Inc., Banc One
Capital Markets, Inc. and Apex
Pryor Securities.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
“Project” means the acquisition of
real property and interests in real
property for the purpose of improving the Airport System.
“Rule” means Rule 15c2-12, prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
“Subordinated Airport Revenue”
means the Airport Revenue (as
defined in the Indenture) deposited
in the Surplus Fund and/or the
Improvement Fund (both Funds as
created under Section 5.02 of the
Indenture), subject to any requirements of the Use Agreements (as
defined in the Indenture) for the
approval by the Airlines (as defined
in the Indenture) of, or lack of
objection by the Airlines to, the use
by the City of such deposits for the
Project.
Any reference herein to the City
or the Council of the City, the
Mayor, the Director of Finance, the
Director of Law, the Clerk of Council, or any other officers of the City,
shall include those who or which
succeed to the functions, duties, or
responsibilities thereof pursuant to
or by operation of law or who or
which are lawfully performing such
functions, duties, or responsibilities.
Unless the context shall otherwise
indicate, words importing the singular number shall include the plural number, and vice versa.

The City Record
Section 2. The Bonds. It is necessary to issue bonds of this City in
an aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $48,500,000 (the “Bonds”)
to pay a portion of the costs of the
Project, including costs of issuance
of the Bonds, to adequately fund
any debt service reserve fund that
may be established pursuant to Section 12, and to retire the Notes (as
defined in Section 3 below). Interest
on the Bonds shall be payable semiannually until the principal amount
is paid. The Bonds are estimated to
mature
in
25
annual
principal
installments
that
are
in
such
amounts that the total principal and
interest payments on the Bonds in
any fiscal year in which principal is
payable are substantially equal. The
Bonds will be subordinated revenue
obligations of the City, the principal
of and interest on which will be
secured solely by, and payable solely from, Subordinated Airport Revenue. The Notes may be retired from
the proceeds of obligations issued
other than the Bonds or from other
moneys available for such purpose.
The Bonds or other obligations that
may be issued to retire the Notes
will have such terms as are provided in a subsequent ordinance of this
Council authorizing their issuance
and sale.
Section 3. Issuance of Notes. It is
necessary for the reasons set forth
in the preambles to this Ordinance,
and this Council determines, that
notes in the aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $48,500,000
(the “Notes”) shall be issued in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds, the proceeds of which will be
used to retire the Outstanding Notes
and may be used, if and to the
extent so provided in the Certificate
of Award, to pay costs of any Credit Support Instrument with respect
to the Notes, to fund interest on the
Notes and any debt service reserve
fund established under Section 12,
and to pay costs of issuance of the
Notes. The Notes shall be issued in
the aggregate principal amount not
to exceed $48,500,000 that is determined by the Director of Finance in
the Certificate of Award to be
required to be issued for the purposes stated above in this Section,
taking into account other moneys
available for such purposes. The
Notes shall be dated the date of
issuance or such other date as is
designated in the Certificate of
Award. The Notes shall mature on a
date to be determined by the Director of Finance in the Certificate of
Award in accordance with his determination of the best interest of and
financial advantages to the City,
provided that such date shall not be
later than five years from the date
of issuance of the Notes.
Section 4. Interest. The Notes shall
bear interest from their date at the
rate per annum set forth in the Certificate of Award, or if any Notes
bear interest at a variable rate, at
the rate determined pursuant to the
method set forth in the Certificate
of Award. Interest on the Notes
shall be payable on the dates determined by the Director of Finance in
the Certificate of Award and until
the principal amount is paid or pay-

13

5
ment is provided for. If any Notes
bear interest at a fixed rate, that
rate shall not exceed six percent
(6%) per year (computed on the
basis of a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months) and interest
shall be payable not more often
than every six months and at maturity or at any earlier redemption
date. If any Notes bear interest at a
variable rate or rates, those rates
shall not exceed that set forth in
Section 5, and interest shall be
payable not more often than once a
month and following purchase and
at
maturity
or
at
any
earlier
redemption date.
Section 5. Variable Rate Notes. In
the event that the Director of
Finance determines that the City’s
best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Notes
to be obligations bearing interest at
variable rates, redeemable by the
City without penalty or premium on
interest adjustment dates, then the
Director of Finance is authorized to
so specify in the Certificate of
Award. If the Director of Finance so
determines, then the Director of
Finance shall specify in the Certificate of Award the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the variable
rate Notes shall be determined,
whether by reference to a market
index, by auction, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise; provided that
the variable rate Notes shall not
bear interest at a rate in excess of
twelve percent (12%) per annum.
That maximum interest rate shall
not apply to variable rate Notes during any period those Notes are held
by a provider of a Credit Support
Instrument because they could not
be remarketed and the terms of the
Credit Support Instrument do not
permit such a maximum rate of
interest. Holders of variable rate
Notes may be given the right to tender their variable rate Notes for purchase by the City at the times, on
the terms, and subject to the conditions set forth in the Certificate of
Award and any tender agreement;
provided that tender rights shall be
exercisable only at such times as a
Credit Support Instrument is in
place that provides for the payment
of the purchase price payable to the
tendering holder of a variable rate
Note. If the Director of Finance designates any Notes as variable rate
Notes, and if the holders of the variable rate Notes are to be entitled to
tender the variable rate Notes for
purchase,
then
the
Director
of
Finance shall also designate in the
Certificate of Award for those variable rate Notes the provider or
providers for any Credit Support
Instrument, the tender agent or
agents and the remarketing agent
or agents, which designations shall
be based on the determination of the
Director of Finance that the parties
so designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Notes,

6
and from time to time thereafter so
long as the variable rate Notes are
outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support
Instruments,
tender
agents (which may be the Registrar), remarketing agents, auction
agents and others as may be determined by the Director of Finance to
be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of determining
the variable interest rates, permitting holders the right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support
for the payment of the variable rate
Notes upon tender for purchase or
redemption, and providing for the
repayment by the City of any
amounts drawn under the Credit
Support Instrument.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
the Notes, and regardless of the
Notes bearing interest at variable or
fixed rates, is authorized to contract
for a Credit Support Instrument, and
to pay the costs of it from proceeds
of the Notes, if he determines that
the Credit Support Instrument will
result in a savings in the cost of
this financing to the City.
Section
6.
Payment
of
Debt
Charges on the Notes; Redemption.
The debt charges on the Notes shall
be payable in lawful money of the
United States of America, or in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America as determined by
the Director of Finance in the Certificate of Award, and shall be
payable, without deduction for services of the Registrar (as defined in
Section 7) as the City’s paying
agent. If agreed to by the Original
Purchaser, the Notes shall be subject to redemption without penalty
or premium at the option of the City
in whole or in part at any time prior
to maturity as provided in the Certificate of Award and this Ordinance.
If fewer than all of the Notes of
a
single
maturity
are
to
be
redeemed, the selection of Notes of
that maturity to be redeemed, or
portions thereof in amounts of the
minimum authorized denomination
or any integral multiple thereof,
shall be made by lot in a manner
determined by the Registrar. In the
case of a partial redemption of
Notes by lot when Notes of denominations greater than the minimum
authorized denomination are then
outstanding, each unit of principal
thereof in the amount of the minimum authorized denomination shall
be treated as if it were a separate
Note of the denomination of the minimum authorized denomination. If it
is determined that one or more, but
not all, of the units of principal
amount in the amount of the minimum authorized denomination represented by a Note are to be called
for redemption, then, upon notice of
redemption of such unit or units, the
registered owner of that Note shall
surrender the Note to the Registrar
(i) for payment of the redemption
price of such unit or units of principal amount called for redemption
(including, without limitation, the
interest accrued to the date fixed
for
redemption),
and
(ii)
for
issuance, without charge to the registered owner, of a new Note or
Notes of any authorized denomina-

The City Record
tion or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Note surrendered.
The notice of the call for redemption of Notes shall identify (i) by
designation, letters, numbers, or
other
distinguishing
marks,
the
Notes or portions thereof to be
redeemed, (ii) the redemption price
to be paid, (iii) the date fixed for
redemption, and (iv) the place or
places where the amounts due upon
redemption are payable. The notice
shall be given by the Registrar on
behalf of the City by mailing a copy
of the redemption notice by first
class mail, postage prepaid, at least
30 days prior to the date fixed for
redemption, to the registered owner
of each Note subject to redemption
in whole or in part at the registered
owner’s address shown on the Note
Register (as defined in Section 7)
maintained by the Registrar at the
close of business on the 15th day
preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Note,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Note.
In the event that notice of redemption shall have been given by the
Registrar to the registered owners
as provided above, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, moneys that, in addition to any other
moneys available therefor and held
by the Registrar, will be sufficient
to redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus accrued interest to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Notes for which notice
of
redemption
has
been
given.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Notes and portions thereof called for redemption
shall become due and payable on
the redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender thereof at
the place or places specified in that
notice, shall be paid at the redemption price, plus accrued interest to
the redemption date. If moneys for
the redemption of all of the Notes
and portions thereof to be redeemed,
together with accrued interest thereon to the redemption date, are held
by the Registrar on the redemption
date, so as to be available therefor
on that date and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail as aforesaid, then from and
after the redemption date those
Bonds and portions thereof called
for redemption shall cease to bear
interest and no longer shall be considered to be outstanding. If those
moneys shall not be so available on
the redemption date, or that notice
shall not have been deposited in the
mail as aforesaid, those Notes and
portions thereof shall continue to
bear interest, until they are paid, at
the same rate as they would have
borne had they not been called for
redemption. All moneys held by the
Registrar for the redemption of particular Notes shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered
owners thereof and shall be paid to
them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Notes.

14

January 8, 2003
Section 7. Registrar. The Director
of Finance shall designate a bank
or trust company to act as the
authenticating
agent,
registrar,
transfer agent, and paying agent for
the Notes after determining that the
payment at that bank or trust company will not endanger the funds or
securities of the City and that proper procedures and safeguards are
available for that purpose (the
“Registrar”).
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a registrar agreement or agreements between the City and the
Registrar (the “Registrar Agreement”) in a form consistent with
this Ordinance and as approved by
the Director of Law. In the event
that a trust agreement secures the
Notes, as provided in Section 12, the
Registrar Agreement may be incorporated in such trust agreement.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
The Notes shall be issued only as
fully registered Notes. Principal on
the Notes shall be payable when due
upon presentation and surrender of
the Notes at the designated office of
the Registrar designated in the Registrar Agreement. Interest on each
Note shall be paid on each interest
payment date by check or draft
mailed to the person in whose name
the Note was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing on the
Note Register (defined below in this
Section) at the close of business on
the 15th day next preceding that
interest payment date. The City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange,
and transfer of Notes as provided in
this Section (the “Note Register”) so
long as any of the Notes remain outstanding. Subject to the provisions
of this Section, the person in whose
name a Note is registered on the
Note Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Note for
all purposes of the Note Proceedings. Payment of or on account of
the debt charges on any Note shall
be made only to or upon the order
of that person; neither the City nor
the Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
and so long as the Notes are issued
in a book entry system, principal of
and interest on the Notes shall be
payable in the manner provided in
any agreement entered into by the
Director of Finance, in the name
and on behalf of the City, in connection with the book entry system.
Section 8. Transfer and Exchange
of Certain Notes. Notes may be
exchanged for Notes of any autho-

January 8, 2003
rized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the office designated by the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Note may be transferred only on
the Note Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Note at the
office designated by the Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
Upon exchange or transfer, the Registrar shall complete, authenticate,
and deliver a new Note or Notes, of
any
authorized
denomination
or
authorized denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
the Note Proceedings. The exchange
or transfer shall be without charge
to the owner, except that the City
and Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
special obligations of the City, evidencing the same debt, and entitled
to the same security and benefit
under the Note Proceedings, as the
Notes
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer. Neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
required to make any exchange or
transfer of a Note during the period
beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the
mailing of a notice of redemption of
Notes and ending at the close of
business on the day of such mailing
or to transfer or exchange any Note
selected for redemption in whole or
in part.
Section 9. Book Entry. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Ordinance, if it is determined
by the Director of Finance to be in
the best interests of and financially
advantageous to the City, the Notes
may be issued in book entry form
in accordance with the provisions of
this Section. As used in this Section
and this Ordinance:
The Notes may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized, (i) the
Notes may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Note representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the book entry

The City Record
interest owners of Notes in book
entry form shall have no right to
receive Notes in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii)
ownership of book entry interests in
book entry form shall be shown by
book entry on the system maintained and operated by the Depository and its Participants, and transfers of the ownership of book entry
interests shall be made only by book
entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv) the Notes as such
shall
not
be
transferable
or
exchangeable, except for transfer to
another Depository or to another
nominee of a Depository, without
further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Notes for use in a book entry
system, the Director of Finance may
attempt to establish a securities
depository/book entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or
is unable to do so, the Director of
Finance, after making provision for
notification of the book entry interest owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Notes from the Depository,
and authenticate and deliver note
certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance also is
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the Notes,
after determining that the signing
thereof will not endanger the funds
or securities of the City and after
the approval of the form of any such
agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 10. Execution of Notes.
Notes shall be signed by the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, in the
name of the City and in their official capacities, provided that either
or both of those signatures may be
a facsimile, and shall bear the seal
of the City or a facsimile thereof;
provided that no Note shall be valid
or obligatory for any purpose or
shall be entitled to any security or
benefit under the Note Proceedings
unless and until the certificate of
authentication printed on the Note is
signed by the Registrar as authenticating agent, and authentication
by the Registrar shall be conclusive
evidence that the Note so authenticated has been duly issued, signed
and delivered under, and is entitled
to the security and benefit of, the
Note Proceedings. The certificate of
authentication may be signed by
any authorized officer or employee
of the Registrar or by any other person acting as an agent of the Registrar and approved by the Director
of Finance on behalf of the City.
The same person need not sign the
certificate of authentication on all
of the Notes.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Notes and shall
endorse thereon his approval of the

15

7
form and correctness thereof by his
manual or facsimile signature. The
Notes shall be issued in the denominations as requested by the Original Purchaser and approved by the
Director of Finance, in conformity
with this Ordinance. The entire principal amount may be represented by
a single note and may be issued as
fully registered securities and in
book entry or other uncertificated
form if it is determined by the
Director of Finance that issuance of
fully registered securities in that
form will facilitate the sale and
delivery of the Notes. The Notes
may be issued in the authorized
denominations of either (a) $100,000
each or in any denomination that is
the sum of (i) $100,000 and (ii)
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, and not exchangeable for other
Notes in denominations less than
$100,000, or (b) $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, as determined
by the Director of Finance in the
Certificate of Award to be in the
best interests of the City. The Notes
shall not have coupons attached,
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance and shall
express upon their faces the purpose, in summary terms, for which
they are issued and that they are
issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Sale of Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at not less than
97% of par plus accrued interest at
private sale by the Director of
Finance to the Original Purchaser
in accordance with law and the provisions of this Ordinance. If, in the
reasonable opinion of the Director of
Finance, an underwriter is incapable of fully performing its duties
or meeting its obligations in its
capacity as Original Purchaser with
respect to the Notes, the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever action may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser. The Director
of Finance shall sign the Certificate
of Award referred to in this Ordinance, evidencing that sale to the
Original Purchaser, cause the Notes
to be prepared, and have the Notes
signed and delivered, together with
a true transcript of proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Notes if requested by the Original
Purchaser, to the Original Purchaser upon payment of the purchase
price. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a note purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser, or representative thereof (the
“Purchase Agreement”), in a form
consistent with this Ordinance and
as approved by the Director of Law.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Purchase Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose. The Mayor, the Director of Finance, the Clerk of Council,
the Director of Law, and other City
officials, as appropriate, are each

8
authorized and directed to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance.
Section 12. Security for the Notes.
The Notes are special obligations of
the City. The interest on the Notes,
unless paid from other sources
available to the City, is secured solely by, and is payable solely from
proceeds of the Notes or Bonds or
the Subordinated Airport Revenue.
The principal of the Notes, unless
paid from other sources available to
the City, is payable solely from the
proceeds of the Bonds. The City
covenants and agrees to do all
things
necessary
to
effect
the
issuance and delivery, prior to the
maturity of the Notes, of the Bonds
or any renewal notes, in that principal amount as may be necessary,
together with any other moneys
available to the City for the purpose, to pay the debt service on the
Notes when due at maturity and to
do all things necessary to sell the
Bonds in sufficient time to permit
their delivery prior to the maturity
of the Notes. The par value to be
received from the sale of the Bonds
or of any renewal notes and any
excess funds resulting from the
issuance of the Notes shall, to the
extent necessary, be used to pay the
debt charges on the Notes at maturity and are pledged for that purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the City covenants and agrees to
issue Additional Revenue Bonds on
a
parity
with
Airport
Revenue
Bonds (all as defined in the Indenture) to retire the Notes, if and to
the extent the City can satisfy the
conditions
precedent
under
the
Indenture for the issuance of Additional Revenue Bonds. Further, if
the Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of the
Financial Advisor, that under conditions of the market at that time, the
Bonds cannot be issued with reasonable terms, the City covenants
and agrees that it will issue obligations payable from other City
sources to retire the Notes at maturity.
The City shall not be obligated to
pay principal of and interest on the
Notes from any funds or sources
other than those described in this
Section, and the Notes shall not be
a claim upon or lien against any
other property of the City. The
Notes, as to both principal and interest, are not general obligations of
the City, and the full faith and credit of the City is not pledged to their
payment. The holders of the Notes
shall have no right to have taxes
levied by the City for the payment
of principal of and interest on the
Notes.
Nothing
herein,
however,
shall be deemed to prohibit the City,
of its own volition, from using, to
the extent that it is authorized by
law to do so, any other resources for
the fulfillment of any of the terms,
conditions, or obligations of this
Ordinance or of the Notes.
The City will observe and perform
all its agreements and obligations
provided for by the Notes or this

The City Record
Ordinance. All of the obligations
under this Ordinance are hereby
established as duties specifically
enjoined by law and resulting from
an office, trust, or station upon the
City within the meaning of Section
2731.01 of the Ohio Revised Code.
In the event that the interest on
the Notes is to be provided for from
Note proceeds, or if in the judgment
of the Director of Finance, after consultation with the Financial Advisor, a debt service reserve to secure
the Notes is in the best interest of
and financially advantageous to the
City, the City shall enter into a trust
agreement with the bank or trust
company serving as Registrar for
the Notes and providing for a debt
service fund or debt service reserve
fund, as applicable, to be held by
that bank or trust company, in its
capacity as trustee, and such fund
or funds are hereby authorized. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, the trust agreement in
a form consistent with this Ordinance and approved by the Director
of Law. The Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Port Control
and other City officials, as appropriate, are authorized to take such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate such additional security for the Notes. Such trust
agreement may be supplemental to
the Indenture. The City hereby
covenants and agrees to appropriate
annually from the Subordinated Airport Revenue into any such funds
amounts sufficient to maintain the
balances
required
by
the
trust
agreement and to restore any deficiency therein.
Section 13. Note Proceeds. The
proceeds from the sale of the Notes
are appropriated and shall be used
for the purpose for which the Notes
are being issued. Any portion of the
proceeds to be used to pay interest
on the Notes or to make a required
deposit to a debt service reserve
fund shall be paid into the debt service fund and debt service reserve
fund, respectively, created pursuant
to Section 12. Any money in the
debt service fund created for the
security of the Outstanding Notes
remaining after payment (or provision for payment) of debt service
on the Outstanding Notes shall be
held for the security of the Notes
and used to pay debt service on the
Notes.
Section 14. Disclosure. If, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
after consultation with the Financial Advisor and the Original Purchaser, an official statement or
other disclosure document is appropriate relating to the initial offering
of
the
Notes,
the
Director
of
Finance, on behalf of the City and
in that officer’s official capacity, is
authorized to (i) cooperate with the
Original Purchaser in the preparation of, and the making of modifications, completions or changes of
or supplements to, such a disclosure
document, (ii) determine, and to certify or otherwise represent, when
the disclosure document is to be
deemed final or is final, (iii) authorize the use and distribution of that
disclosure document and any sup-

16

January 8, 2003
plements thereto in connection with
the initial offering of the Notes, (iv)
sign certificates, statements or other
documents in connection with the
finality, accuracy, and completeness
of that disclosure document, and (v)
contract for the services for the production and distribution of the disclosure
document,
including
by
printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes, the City agrees, as the
only obligated person with respect
to the Notes under the Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data, audited financial statements
and notices, in such manner, as may
be required for purposes of paragraph (b)(5)(i) of the Rule. In
order to describe and specify certain
terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose,
and
thereby
to
implement
that
agreement, including provisions for
enforcement, amendment, and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, and if required under
the Rule, a Continuing Disclosure
Certificate or Certificates in conformance with the reporting requirements of the Rule. The agreement
formed, collectively, by this paragraph and that Certificate, shall be
the
City’s
continuing
disclosure
agreement for purposes of the Rule,
and its performance shall be subject
to the annual appropriation of any
funds that may be necessary to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing
disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices.
Prior to making any filing in
accordance with that agreement or
providing notice of the occurrence
of any other events, the Director of
Finance shall consult with, as
appropriate, the legal counsel and
bond or other qualified independent
special counsel to the City. The
Director of Finance, acting in the
name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Section 15. Ratings, Insurance,
and Other Credit Enhancement. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance after consultation with the
Original Purchaser, the filing of an
application for a rating on the Notes
by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies or a Credit
Support Instrument is in the best
interest of, and financially advantageous to, the City, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications, to
provide to each such agency, company or credit provider such information as may be required for the
purpose. The cost of obtaining each
rating and Credit Support Instrument, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchaser in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of
the Notes.

January 8, 2003
Section 16. Interest Rate Swaps,
Hedges and Caps. For the purpose
of achieving the optimal available
debt structure for the Notes, the
Director of Finance may, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, enter into one or more
agreements in connection with or
subsequent to the issuance of the
Notes for an interest rate swap,
swaption, rate cap, rate collar or
other hedging transaction to lower
the effective interest rate on the
obligations to the City or to hedge
the exposure of the City against
fluctuations in prevailing interest
rates, provided, however, that: (i)
the counterparty to any hedging
transaction shall have a rating of at
least
“A”
by
either
Moody’s
Investors Service, Inc., or Standard
& Poor’s Corporation; (ii) payments
by the City to the counterparty to
the hedging transaction shall be
limited to the same sources which
secure payment of the Notes as
described in this Ordinance; and
(iii)
the
cost
of
any
hedging
arrangement shall have been determined by the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, to be justified by
the corresponding benefit to the
City and to be commercially reasonable based on then current market conditions.
Section 17. Tax Covenants. In the
event that the Notes are issued and
sold as obligations bearing interest
that is excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, the
covenants in this Section 17 shall
govern. However, if the Notes are
issued and sold as obligations bearing interest that is included in gross
income for federal income tax purposes, the City shall not be bound
by the covenants of this Section
with respect to the Notes.
Subject to the foregoing, the City
covenants that it will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the Notes in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge
bonds under Sections 141, 148 or 149
of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the Code) or (ii)
be treated other than as bonds to
which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, and (b) the interest on the
Notes will not be treated as an item
of tax preference under Section 57
of the Code. The City further
covenants that (a) it will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest on the Notes to be and remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes to the governmental purpose of the borrowing,
(ii) restrict the yield on investment
property, (iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable,
of
property
financed

The City Record
with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to
assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes is hereby
authorized (a) to make or effect any
election,
selection,
designation,
choice, consent, approval, or waiver
on behalf of the City with respect
to the Notes as the City is permitted to or required to make or give
under the federal income tax laws,
including, without limitation thereto, any of the elections provided for
in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code
or available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
or interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that
purpose, reducing the burden or
expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or payments
or penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Notes, and (c) to
give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion in
the transcript of proceedings for the
Notes, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Notes.
Section 18. Captions, Headings,
and Section References. The captions and headings in this Ordinance
are solely for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit, or
describe the scope or intent of any
Sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, or clauses hereof.
Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 19. Interpretation. Any pro visions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the Notes
authorized herein. Nothing in this
Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any
manner as would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with
respect to any outstanding bonds,
notes, certificates of indebtedness,
other obligations, trust indentures,
trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered
into by the City.
Section 20. Satisfaction of Conditions. This Council determines that
all acts and conditions necessary to

17

9
be done or performed by the City or
to have been met precedent to and
in the issuing of the Notes in order
to make them legal, valid, and binding special obligations of the City
have been performed and have been
met, or will at the time of delivery
of the Notes have been performed
and have been met, in regular and
due form as required by law, and
that no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional,
is
applicable
to
the
issuance of the Notes.
Section 21. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of
its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council or committees, and that
all deliberations of this Council and
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, all in
compliance with the law.
Section 22. Emergency. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public property, health and safety
and for the usual and daily operation of a municipal department, by
providing for the redemption or
retirement of the Outstanding Notes.
Provided this Ordinance receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
members elected to Council, it shall
take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall
take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 9-03.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 181.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1119-61,
passed June 12, 1961, relating to purchases of perishable supplies and
foodstuffs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 181.16 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1119-61, passed June
12, 1961, is amended to read as follows:
Section 181.16 Purchases of Perishable Supplies and Foodstuffs
The purchase of foodstuffs and
perishable supplies required for use
in the hospitals and similar institutions and the purchase of beer for
sale at the golf courses of the City,
which the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies has determined
to
be
impracticable
to
obtain

10
through
a
requirement
contract
basis, may be made on orders given
in the open market without posting.
The purchases authorized under this
section shall not be considered to be
splitting of requisitions as prohibited under Charter Sections 108 and
109.
Section 2. That existing Section
181.16 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1119-61, passed
June 12, 1961, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 10-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 973-75 East 140th
Street to Mt. Holiness Church.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 115-03-110,
as more fully described below, to Mt.
Holiness Church.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-110
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
241 in Cowel, Brooks and Smyth’s
Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1 and 2,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of
Adams Avenue (now known as East
140th Street) and extending back of

The City Record
equal width 137' 4" deep, as appears
by said plat.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 11-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 6419 Quincy Avenue
to Lemoyne Nesbitt, Jr.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

18

January 8, 2003
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-30-031,
as more fully described below, to
Lemoyne Nesbitt, Jr.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-30-031
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
125 in W. S. and M.W. Chamberlain’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and 335,
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Allotment in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
28
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, said Sublot No. 125 has a
frontage of 40 8/12 feet on the
Northerly side of Quincy Avenue,
S.E., (formerly Wade Street) and
extends back between parallel lines
160 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.

January 8, 2003
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 12-03.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2399-02,
passed December 9, 2002 as it pertains to the Spanish American Committee sponsoring the Three Kings
Day Program through the use of
Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2399-02, passed December
9, 2002 is hereby amended to read
respectively as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Spanish American Committee for the Three Kings Day Program effective from December 5,
2001 to January 21, 2003 for the public purpose of providing food to
needy families and underprivileged
children through the use of Ward 14
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2399-02, passed December
9, 2002 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 13-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 9. (Tyronne Battle).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business district, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 9; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

11
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
each
persons
named
below
to
engage in peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 9: Tyronne
Battle at the southwest corner of
Cornell Road and Dorm Court.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 14-03.
By Council Members Lewis and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 17 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, as amended by Ordinance No. 2448-02, passed December 16, 2002, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 17 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, as amended by Ordinance No. 2448-02,
passed December 16, 2002, is amended to read as follows:
Section 17. That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

Auto Body Repair Unit Leader.............................................
Auto Body Repair Worker......................................................
Automobile Repair Helper.......................................................
Automobile Repair Worker.....................................................
Automobile Repairman Unit Leader....................................
Blacksmith.....................................................................................
Garage Worker............................................................................
Heavy Duty Mechanic...............................................................
Heavy Duty Unit Leader.........................................................
Small Equipment Repair Worker.........................................
Tire Repair Worker...................................................................
Welder.............................................................................................

Minimum
$12.88
$15.73
$10.13
$12.60
$17.78
$15.79
$12.42
$15.75
$23.85
$12.26
$14.08
$18.36

Maximum
$20.59
$18.25
$14.39
$18.09
$21.95
$21.38
$15.38
$21.67
$26.87
$16.64
$16.49
$21.08

Section 2. That existing Section 17 of Ordinance No. 469-02, passed April 1, 2002, as amended by Ordinance No.
2448-02, passed December 16, 2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

19

12
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 15-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution requesting the County Auditor to make tax
advances during the year 2003,
under Section 321.34 of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the County Auditor is requested to draw, and the
County Treasurer is requested to
pay, on draft or drafts made payable
to the Treasury of the City of Cleveland, any money that may be in the
County Treasury from time to time
during the year 2003 and credited to
the account of the City of Cleveland
and lawfully applicable to the purpose of the 2003 fiscal year. The
payments will be made on the
request of the Director of Finance
or the Mayor of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a certified
copy of this resolution to the Auditor of Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 16-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 2609
East 110th Street and repealing Resolution No. 1156-02, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 2609 East 110th Street by
Resolution No. 1156-02 adopted by
the Council on June 3, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Patricia J. Britt and Applicant,
Clarmada C. Hodge, DBA East 110th
Drive Thru, 2609 East 110th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 3884165, a copy of which is
in the file for this address with the
City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 2609 East 110th Street be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1156-02, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 17-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit at 8302 Cedar
Avenue, 1st Floor and repealing
Resolution No. 1607-02, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit
to 8302 Cedar Avenue, 1st Floor by
Resolution No. 1607-02 adopted by
the Council on August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Patricia J. Britt and Applicant,
Devious McDade, DBA DE & TS
Maxwell Cutrate, 8302 Cedar Avenue, 1st Floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 2068613, a copy
of which is in the file for this
address with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit to
8302 Cedar Avenue, 1st Floor be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1607-02, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

20

January 8, 2003
Res. No. 18-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit at
16921 St. Clair Avenue, 1st Floor,
Front Only and repealing Resolution
No. 1675-02, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 16921 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st Floor, Front Only by
Resolution No. 1675-02 adopted by
the Council on August 14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Michael D. Polensek and Applicant, James D. Sanders, President of
Jason Family, Inc., 16921 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number 4251884, a copy of
which is in the file for this address
with the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to 16921 St. Clair Avenue, 1st
Floor, Front Only be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1675-02, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 19-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 11902
Kinsman Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 1690-02, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit to 11902 Kinsman
Avenue by Resolution No. 1690-02
adopted by the Council on August
14, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Zachary Reed and Applicant,
King E. Baker, DBA B & B Drive
Thru Beverage & Food Mart, 11902

January 8, 2003
Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Permanent Number 03901530010, a copy of which is in the file
for this address with the City Law
Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 11902 Kinsman Avenue be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1690-02, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 20-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 12301 Imperial Avenue
and repealing Resolution No. 1445-02,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 12301
Imperial Avenue by Resolution No.
1445-02 adopted by the Council on
July 17, 2002; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Zachary Reed and Applicant,
Hiam Toyeh Assed, President of
Hiam A. Inc., 12301 Imperial Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 3820139, a copy of which is
in the file for this address with the
City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to 12301 Imperial Avenue be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1445-02, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

The City Record
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 2450-02.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into amendments to contracts with
SBC Global Services, Inc. for Centrex telephone services.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 2243-02.
By Council Members Polensek,
Johnson, Gordon, Cimperman and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire property
located at 16300 Lakeshore Boulevard for the purpose of park and
recreational purposes.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

13
BOARD OF CONTROL

NO MEETING

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MOTION
By Council Member Jones and seconded by Council Member Brady and
unanimously carried that at the
absence of Council Member Nelson
Cintron, Jr., be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:37 p.m. to meet on Monday, January 13, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

21

TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2003
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 02-368: 4700-02 Bridge
Avenue (Ward 14)
Assaad Hasrouni, owner, appeals
to change the use of an existing 22'
x 50' tenant space of an existing 65'
x 70' one-story masonry building
from as bar into a hardware store,
all situated on an approximate 92'
x 125' corner parcel located in a
Two-Family District on the northwest corner of West 47th Street and
Bridge Avenue at 4700-4702 Bridge
Avenue; said change of use being
contrary to the Residential District
Requirements
of
Section
337.03,
where a hardware store is not permitted in a Two-Family District and
subject to the Nonconforming Use
Requirements, where the substitution of a nonconforming use requires the Board of Zoning Appeals
approval as stated in Section 359.01
of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-1: 308 Euclid Avenue
(Ward 13)
MRN Ltd., owners c/o Richard
Maron, appeal to construct an additional 16 stories to an existing 4story masonry retail building, all
situated on an acreage parcel located in a General Retail Business District on the south side of Euclid

14

The City Record

Avenue at 308 Euclid Avenue; said
construction and addition being contrary to the Height Regulations of
Section 353.01(b), where the total
height of a building in a “5” height
district should not exceed 250' in
height and 285' is proposed and contrary to the Yards and Courts Requirements of Section 357.08, where
a 20' rear yard setback is required
and 0' is proposed and interior side
yards of 0' are proposed and interior side yards of 1/4 the height of
the main building are required as
stated in Section 357.09(b)(2)(B) of
the Codified Ordinances.

12' x 26' two-story room addition to
the rear of an existing one family
house all situated on an approximate 50' x 166' irregular shaped
parcel located in a One-Family District on the north side of Brookside
Drive at 5832 Brookside Drive; said
construction being contrary to the
Enforcement and Penalty Requirements, where no building shall be
erected, altered or enlarged until a
permit for such erection, alteration
or enlargement has been issued by
the Commissioner of Building as
stated in Section 327.02(b) of the
Codified Ordinances.

Calendar No. 03-2: 17300 Lakeshore
Boulevard (Ward 11)
Joseph
Adornetti,
owner,
and
Madeline Lewis, tenant, appeal to
change the use of an existing
approximate 50' x 55' one-story,
masonry restaurant building into a
day care facility all situated on an
approximate 91' x 200' parcel located in a Local Retail Business District on the south side of Lakeshore
Boulevard at 17300 Lakeshore Boulevard; said change of use being contrary to the Business District Requirements of Section 343.01(b)(1),
where by reference as regulated in
the least restricted Residence District, (Section 337.02(f)(3)(c), a day
care is required to be 30' from any
adjoining premises not used for a
similar purpose and the proposed
use abuts a residential premises
and contrary to the Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements of
Section 349.08, where a chain link
fence is proposed and the proposed
parking lot must be screened from
all residential premises with an
opaque fence or dense 4' wide landscape strip providing year round
screen cover and contrary to the
Landscaping
and
Screening
Requirements of Sections 352.08-352.10,
where an 8' wide landscaping strip
is required where the property abuts
the residential district at the rear
and none is proposed and a 6' wide
landscape frontage strip is required
and contrary to the Fence Regulations, where a 6' high fence is proposed and 4' is required as stated
in Section 358.05(a)(2) of the Codified Ordinances.

EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

Calendar No. 03-3: 9701 Lorain Avenue (Ward 18)
Adolph Claudio, owner, appeals to
expand and change the use of an
existing approximate 75' x 116' onestory, fine arts shop building to
include tattoo and body piercing all
situated on an 80' x 120' parcel
located in a General Retail Business
District on the south side of Lorain
Avenue at 9701 Lorain Avenue; said
expansion and change of use being
contrary to the Specific Use Regulations, where the proposed use
abuts a Two-Family District at the
rear and is within 1000' of a church
at West 99th and Denison and no
such use shall be established within 1000' of a residential district, day
care center, school, public library,
church, playground, public or nonprofit recreation center or community center as stated in Section
347.12(b)(1) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-4: 5832 Brookside
Drive (Ward 16)
Michael Heryak and Janet Wyrwas, owners, appeal to construct a

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 6, 2003
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
6, 2003, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:

January 8, 2003
Calendar No. 02-362: 5945-49 Engel
Avenue postponed to February 3,
2003.
Calendar No. 02-308: 11010-12 Superior Avenue postponed to February 10, 2003.
Calendar No. 02-335: 3190 West 105th
Street postponed to February 18,
2003.
Calendar No. 02-344: 1892 East 73rd
Street postponed to February 10,
2003.
On Monday, January 6, 2003, in
Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on Monday, December
23, 2002, and said decisions were
adopted and approved in Executive
Session on January 6, 2003:
The following appeals were Approved:

The following appeals were Approved:

Calendar No. 02-354: 17909 Sedalia
Avenue
Frank Bemak appealed to construct a 12' x 16' wolmanized open
deck to the rear of a one and onehalf dwelling in a One-Family District.

Calendar No. 02-358: 9719 a.k.a. 9721
Ramona Boulevard
Damascus
Missionary
Baptist
Church appealed to construct a 15
space asphalt parking lot on a 100'
x 150' parcel in a B1 Two-Family
District; subject to condition.

Calendar No. 02-326: 14909 Kingsford
Avenue
Stephane Lowe appealed to enclose an existing 7' x 20' front
porch of a one family dwelling in a
One-Family District.

Calendar No. 02-363: 1414 East 115th
Street
Luther Pettit appealed to install
154 linear feet of 5' high chain link
fencing around the perimeter of a
44' x 110' corner parcel in a Local
Retail Business District.

The following appeals were Denied:

Calendar No. 02-364: 2197 Columbus
Road
Niagara Homes Ltd. appealed to
construct a 16' x 16' third floor
dormer to the rear of a two-story,
one family house on a 22' x 135'
parcel in a Semi-Industry District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 02-353: 3441 West 45th
Street
Sidney Small appealed to change
the use of a two dwelling unit house
to a four dwelling unit house in a
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-360: 14201-05 Harvard Avenue
Eleare Kinney appealed to change
the use of a two-story store building
into a night club in a General Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 02-361: Appeal of Marc
Batulewick, 18415 Melville Road
Marc Batulewick appealed from a
Violation Notice issued by the Division
of
Building
and
Housing
regarding Access and Maintenance
of Off-Street Parking Space Requirements.

Calendar No. 02-352: 16327 Delrey
Avenue
Camille Wilson appealed to establish use of a two-story dwelling
house as a Type A day care facility in a One-Family District.
Calendar No. 02-356: 1977 West 105th
Street
West Cleveland Management appealed to park a vehicle in the front
yard setback area in a Semi-Industry District.
Motion for Reconsideration Granted:
Calendar No. 02-357: 3895 West 136th
Street
Michael A. Sopko appealed to
install 57 linear feet of 4' high
chain link fencing to the rear and
side yards of a corner parcel in a
One-Family District.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

The following appeals were Postponed:

PUBLIC NOTICE

Calendar No. 02-359: 1403-05 East 6th
Street postponed to February 3,
2003.

NONE

22

January 8, 2003
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, January 15, 2003
1:30 P.M.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, January 15, 2003, at 1:30
P.M., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 1729-02.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property north of Detroit
Avenue, east of West 24th Street,
south of the Superior Viaduct and
west of the former Mulberry Street
to a General Retail District and a
PUD Overlay District. (Map Change
No. 2055, Sheet No. 1)
Ord. No. 1732-02.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An ordinance to change the zoning of properties west of East 105th
Street and south of Ashbury Road to
an RA-2 Townhouse District. (Map
Change Nos. 2058, Sheet No. 8)
Ord. No. 2253-02.
By Council Member Jones.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on Lee Road, from
Preibe Avenue to McCracken Road
to a One-Family Residential District.
(Map Change No. 2062, Sheet No. 10)
Ord. No. 2390-02.
By Council Member Jackson.
An ordinance to change the zoning in the vicinity of Ashland Road,
Longfellow Avenue and Thackery
Avenue to a Semi-Industry District.
(Map Change No. 2065, Sheet No. 5)
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
JOSEPH C. CIMPERMAN,
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
_____
January 1, 2003 and January 8, 2003

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

The City Record
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations
made
on
these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2003
Labor and Materials Necessary to
Clean and Test Insulators, Bushing and Lighting Arrestors, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1075-02, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 17,
2002.
Maintenance of the High Voltage
Cable System, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1052-02,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 18, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 2003
AT 10:00 A.M., AT CLEVELAND
PUBLIC POWER, LOCATED AT
1300 LAKESIDE AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Signal Poles and Mast Arms, for the
Division of Traffic Engineering,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 22072000, 921-02 and 1110-02, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, January 29, 2001, June 3,
2002 and June 17, 2002, respectively.
January 1, 2003 and January 8, 2003
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2003

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to

Rehabilitation of Ramp Around Concourse C, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
2374-02 pending.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
&
OEO
MATCHMAKER SESSION IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE PREBID MEETING, FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 2003 AT 9:30 A.M. AT
CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, ANALEX
BUILDING AUDITORIUM, LOCATED
AT
19501
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.

23

15
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE OF THREE HUNDRED ($300.00) IN THE FORM
OF
A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
January 8, 2003 and January 15, 2003
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2003
Maintenance and Repair of Overhead Doors, for Various Divisions,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2308-02,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, December 9, 2002.
Window Washing Services, for Various
Divisions,
Department
of
Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2306-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 9, 2002.
Commercial Gases, for Various Divisions, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 230702, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 9,
2002.
Baldwin
Chemical/Administration
Project No. 305, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1975-02, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, December 23, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING TUESDAY, JANUARY
21, 2003 AT 1:00 P.M. IN PUBLIC
UTILITIES
AUDITORIUM,
LOCATED
AT
1201
LAKESIDE
AVE., CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
IN
THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
January 8, 2003 and January 15, 2003

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, January 6, 2003
9:00 A.M.
Finance Committee: Present: Jackson, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Gordon, Reed, White, O’Malley, Coats,
Britt,
Brady,
Scott.
Authorized
Absence: Westbrook.
9:30 A.M.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Britt, Chair; Zone,
Vice Chair; Gordon, Scott, Conwell,
Polensek. Authorized Absence: Cintron.
Wednesday, January 8, 2003
10:00 A.M.
Aviation & Transportation Committee: Present: Westbrook, Chair;
Sweeney, Vice Chair; Britt, Rybka,
Gordon, Reed. Authorized Absence:
Dolan.

The City Record

16

January 8, 2003

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments
Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Columbus Road, 2197, (Ward 14) — Niagra Homes, Ltd., owner c/o Mike McBride, agent —
appeal heard on 1/6/03 (Cal. 02-364) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Delrey Avenue, 16327 , (Ward 1) — Camille Wilson, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
1/6/03 (Cal. 02-352). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 115th Street, 1414, (Ward 9) — Luther Pettit, owner — appeal heard on 1/6/03
(Cal. 02-363) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 6th Street, 1403-5, (Ward 13) — Bedford Properties, owner c/o Lew Wallner — appeal
postponed to 2/3/03 on 1/6/03 (Cal. 02-359) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 73rd Street, 1892, (Ward 7) — Eric Holland, owner — appeal postponed to 2/10/03 on
1/6/03 (Cal. 02-344). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engel Avenue, 5945-49, (Ward 12) — James Stropko, owner, and Community of Faith Church
c/o Pastor Thomas Minor — appeal postponed to 2/3/03 on 1/6/03 (Cal. 02-362) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 14201-05, (Ward 1) — Eleare Kinney, owner, and Claude Carson, agent —
appeal heard on 1/6/03 (Cal. 02-360) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kingsford Avenue, 14909, (Ward 1) — Stephane Lowe, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/6/03 (Cal. 02-326). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Melville Road, 18415, (Ward 11) — Marc Batulewick, owner — appeal heard on 1/6/03
(Cal. 02-361) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ramona Boulevard, 9719, (Ward 4) — Damascus Missionary Baptist Church, owner c/o Curtis
Williams — appeal heard on 1/6/03 (Cal. 02-358). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sedalia Avenue, 17909, (Ward 21) — Frank Bemak, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 1/6/03 (Cal. 02-354) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 11010-12, (Ward 9) — Louis Lee, owner — appeal postponed to 2/10/03 on
1/6/03 (Cal. 02-308). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 105th Street, 1977, (Ward 19) — West Cleveland Management, owner c/o Edward Hardin —
appeal denied and adopted on 1/6/03 (Cal. 02-356) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 105th Street, 3190, (Ward 19) — Emir Abeid, owner — appeal postponed to 2/18/03 on
1/6/03 (Cal. 02-335). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 136th Street, 3895, (Ward 20) — Michael A. Sopko, owner — motion for reconsideration
granted on 1/6/03 (Cal. 02-357) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 45th Street, 3441, (Ward 14) — Sidney Small, owner — appeal heard on
1/6/03 (Cal. 02-353). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Bridge Avenue, 4700-02, (Ward 14) — Assaad Hasrouni, owner — appeal to be heard on
1/21/03 (Cal. 02-368). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brookside Drive, 5832, (Ward 16) — Michael Heryak and Janet Wyrwas, owners — appeal to
be heard on 1/21/03 (Cal. 03-4). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 308, (Ward 13) — MRN Ltd., owners c/o Richard Maron — appeal to be heard
on 1/21/03 (Cal. 03-1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Boulevard, 17300, (Ward 11) — Joseph Adornetti, owner, and Madeline Lewis,
tenant — appeal to be heard on 1/21/03 (Cal. 03-2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 9701, (Ward 18) — Adolph Claudio, owner — appeal to be heard on 1/21/03
(Cal. 03-3). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

Bonds
Subordinated airport revenue — $48,500,000, — issuance and sale — improve the airport
system (O 8-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
City of Cleveland Bids
Baldwin Chemical / Administration Project No. 305 — Department of Public Utilities
— Division of Water — per Ord. 1975-02 — bid due February 12, 2003
(advertised 1/8/2003 and 1/15/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Commercial gases — Department of Finance — per Ord. 2307-02 — bid due February 12,
2003(advertised 1/8/2003 and 1/15/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Concourse C ramp rehabilitation — Department of Port Control — Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport — per Ord. 2374-02 — bid due February
7, 2003(advertised 1/8/2003 and 1/15/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
High voltage cable system maintenance — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 1052-02 — bid due January 29, 2003
(advertised 1/1/2003 and 1/8/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

24

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

The City Record

January 8, 2003

17

Insulators, bushings and lighting arrestors — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 1075-02 — bid due January 29, 2003
(advertised 1/1/2003 and 1/8/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Overhead door repair — Department of Finance — per Ord. 2308-02 — bid due February 12, 2003
(advertised 1/8/2003 and 1/15/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Signal poles and mast arms — Department of Public Service — Division of Traffic
Engineering — per Ord. 2207-2000, 921-02 and 1110-02 — bid due January 29, 2003
(advertised 1/1/2003 and 1/8/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Window washing services — Department of Finance — per Ord. 2306-02 — bid due February 12, 2003
(advertised 1/8/2003 and 1/15/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
City Planning Commission
Ashland Rd., Longfellow Ave. & Thackery Ave. — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
District (O 2390-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Detroit Ave. N., W. 24th St., E., Superior Viaduct, S., Mulberry St., W. — change the
zoning — General Retail District and a PUD Overlay District
(O 1729-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
E. 105th St., W. & Ashbury Rd., S.—change the
(O 1732-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Rd. — from Preibe Ave. to McCracken Rd
(O 2253-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

zoning —
..........
— change
..........

RA-2 Townhouse District
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
the zoning
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

Codified Ordinances
Perishable supplies and foodstuffs — purchases — amend Section 181.16
(O 9-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Communications
December 2002 — Mayor’s Emergency Requisitions/Purchase Orders — no orders received
(F 3-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Intercontinental Hotel & Conference Center — I Vision, Winter 2003
(F 2-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lutheran Metropolitan Ministry — 2001 Annual Report, A Day in the
Re-Entry (F 1-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Life of Community
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Community Development
E. 140th St., 973-75 — Land Reutilization Program — Mt. Holiness Church
(O 10-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Lakeshore Blvd., 16300 — acquire property — park and recreational purposes
(O 2243-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Quincy Ave., 6419 — Land Reutilization Program — Lemoyne Nesbitt, Jr.
(O 11-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Spanish American Committee — Three Kings Day Program — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 12-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

Condolences
Bibb, Leon Sr. (R 23-03) . . .
Kasik, George B. (R 21-03)
Morgan, Florence (R 22-03)
Newsome, Diane (R 28-03) .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

11
11
11
11

Stevens, Matthew William (R 25-03) .
Turner, Stephanie (R 27-03) . . . . . . . . .
Vilfroy, Tommy (R 26-03) . . . . . . . . . . .
Ware, Bennie (R 24-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 11
. 11
. 11
. 11

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

12
12
12
12

Puchajda, Laurence B. Jr. (R 31-03) .
Saladonis, Melissa E. (R 34-03). . . . . .
Schneider, John J. (R 30-03) . . . . . . . .
Whitley, James Jr. (R 29-03). . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

12
12
11
11

Congratulations
Cameron, Danny (R 35-03) . . . . .
Daniels, Eva Laverne (R 33-03)
Holcom, Kelly (R 36-03) . . . . . . .
Lally, William P. (R 32-03) . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

25

The City Record

18

January 8, 2003

Contracts
Montgomery Watson & Harza — Contract No. 57651 — amendment — Public Utilities
(O 6-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
SBC Global Services, Inc. — Centrex telephone services — amendments to contracts —
Finance (O 2450-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

County Auditor
Tax advances — year 2003 — request (R 15-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

Emergency Purchases
December 2002 — Mayor’s Emergency Requisitions/Purchase Orders — no orders received
(F 3-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Finance Department
SBC Global Services, Inc. — Centrex telephone services — amendments to contracts —
Finance (O 2450-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Subordinated airport revenue — $48,500,000, — issuance and sale — improve the airport
system (O 8-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Tax advances — year 2003 — request — County Auditor
(R 15-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

Land Reutilization Program
E. 140th St., 973-75 — Mt. Holiness Church (O 10-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Quincy Ave., 6419 — Lemoyne Nesbitt, Jr. (O 11-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

Liquor Permits
Cedar Ave., 8302 — objection — withdraw (Ward 6)
(R 17-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
E. 110th St., 2609 — objection — withdraw (Ward 6)
(R 16-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Imperial Ave., 12301 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3)
(R 20-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Kinsman Ave., 11902 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3)
(R 19-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Scranton Rd., 3038 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 5-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
St. Clair Ave., 16921 — objection — withdraw (Ward 11)
(R 18-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Warner Rd., 4324 — new (Ward 12) (F 4-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Spanish American Committee — Three Kings Day Program — Ward 14
(O 12-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Lakeshore Blvd., 16300 — acquire property — park and recreational purposes
(O 2243-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Peddlers
Battle, Tyronne (Ward 9) (O 13-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

Personnel Department
Compensation — amend Sec. 17 of Ord. No. 469-02
(O 14-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

Port Control Department
Subordinated airport revenue — $48,500,000, — issuance and sale — improve the airport
system (O 8-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

26

January 8, 2003

The City Record

19

Public Hearings (Notices)
Ashland Rd., Longfellow Ave. & Thackery Ave. — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
District (O 2390-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave. N., W. 24th St., E., Superior Viaduct, S., Mulberry St., W. — change the
zoning — General Retail District and a PUD Overlay District
(O 1729-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 105th St., W. & Ashbury Rd., S. — change the zoning — RA-2 Townhouse District
(O 1732-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Rd. — from Preibe Ave. to McCracken Rd — change the zoning
(O 2253-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

Purchases and Supplies Division
December 2002 — Mayor’s Emergency Requisitions/Purchase Orders
(F 3-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Blvd., 16300 — acquire property — park and recreational
(O 2243-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

— no orders received
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
purposes
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Recognition
Gilmore, “Barbara” Lady (R 37-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Revenue Bonds
Subordinated airport revenue — $48,500,000, — issuance and sale — improve the airport
system (O 8-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Salaries
Compensation — amend Sec. 17 of Ord. No. 469-02
(O 14-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Spanish American Committee
Three Kings Day Program — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 12-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Utilities Department
Euclid Creek Watershed Council
(O 7-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Montgomery Watson & Harza —
(O 6-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

communities — agreement — Mayor
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Contract No. 57651 — amendment — Public Utilities
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Ward 01
Bibb, Leon Sr. — condolence (R 23-03) . . . .
Gilmore, “Barbara” Lady — recognition (R
Lee Rd. — from Preibe Ave. to McCracken
(O 2253-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ware, Bennie — condolence (R 24-03) . . . . .

..............
37-03) . . . . . . . .
Rd — change
..............
..............

....
....
the
....
....

.......
.......
zoning
.......
.......

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Ward 02
Turner, Stephanie — condolence (R 27-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Ward 03
Daniels, Eva Laverne — congratulation (R 33-03) . . . . . . .
Imperial Ave., 12301 — objection — withdraw (R 20-03) .
Kinsman Ave., 11902 — objection — withdraw (R 19-03)
Saladonis, Melissa E. — congratulation (R 34-03) . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

12
21
20
12

Ward 05
Ashland Rd., Longfellow Ave. & Thackery Ave. — change the zoning
District (O 2390-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave., 6419 — Land Reutilization Program — Lemoyne Nesbitt,
(O 11-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stevens, Matthew William — condolence (R 25-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vilfroy, Tommy — condolence (R 26-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Whitley, James Jr. — congratulation (R 29-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

27

— Semi-Industry
.................
Jr.
.................
.................
.................
.................

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

18
11
11
11

The City Record

20

January 8, 2003

Ward 06
Cedar Ave., 8302 — objection — withdraw (R 17-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
E. 110th St., 2609 — objection — withdraw (R 16-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Ward 08
E. 105th St., W. & Ashbury Rd., S.—change the zoning — RA-2 Townhouse District
(O 1732-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Morgan, Florence — condolence (R 22-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Ward 09
Battle, Tyronne — peddling (O 13-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Newsome, Diane — condolence (R 28-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Ward 10
E. 140th St., 973-75 — Land Reutilization Program — Mt. Holiness Church
(O 10-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Ward 11
Cameron, Danny — congratulation (R 35-03) . .
Holcom, Kelly — congratulation (R 36-03) . . . .
Lakeshore Blvd., 16300 — acquire property —
(O 2243-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 16921 — objection — withdraw

.....................
.....................
park and recreational
.....................
(R 18-03) . . . . . . . . . . . .

.........
.........
purposes
.........
.........

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

Ward 12
Warner Rd., 4324 — new (F 4-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Ward 13
Detroit Ave. N., W. 24th St., E., Superior Viaduct, S., Mulberry St., W. — change the
zoning — General Retail District and a PUD Overlay District
(O 1729-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Ward 14
Scranton Rd., 3038 — transfer (F 5-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Spanish American Committee — Three Kings Day Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 12-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Ward 20
Kasik, George B. — condolence (R 21-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Puchajda, Laurence B. Jr. — congratulation (R 31-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Schneider, John J. — congratulation (R 30-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Ward 21
Lally, William P. — congratulation (R 32-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Zoning
Ashland Rd., Longfellow Ave. & Thackery Ave. — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
District (O 2390-02). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave. N., W. 24th St., E., Superior Viaduct, S., Mulberry St., W. — change the
zoning — General Retail District and a PUD Overlay District
(O 1729-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 105th St., W. & Ashbury Rd., S. — change the zoning — RA-2 Townhouse District
(O 1732-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Rd. — from Preibe Ave. to McCracken Rd — change the zoning
(O 2253-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

28

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

January 8, 2003

The City Record

PPPP

21

