The City Record
O fficial Publication of the Council of the City of Cleve l a n d

July the Twenty-Third, Two Thousand and Three

Jane L. Campbell
Mayor

Frank G. Jackson
President of Council

Valarie J. McCall
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

Containing

PAGE

City Council
3
The Calendar
105
Board of Control
105
Civil Service
108
Board of Zoning Appeals
108
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
109
Public Notice
111
Public Hearings
111
City of Cleveland Bids
111
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
111
Committee Meetings
206
Index
207

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Sharon Dumas, Commissioner

President of Council – Frank G. Jackson
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ...................................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White ..................................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ..................................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt........................................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
Sabra Pierce Scott ..............................................9212 Kempton Avenue
Kevin Conwell ......................................................774 East 131st Street
Roosevelt Coats.....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka .................................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr....................................................4326 Daisy Avenue
Merle R. Gordon .................................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley ..........................................6710 Brookside Drive
Matthew Zone......................................................1228 West 69th Street
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
Dona Brady...........................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ...............................................16519 West Park Road
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Valarie J. McCall, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Jane L. Campbell
David M. McGuirk, Executive Assistant
Timothy Mueller, Executive Assistant
Craig Tame, Executive Assistant
Henry Guzman, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
Margreat A. Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison
Erik Janas, Inter-Governmental Affairs Officer
Lorna Wisham, Chief Public Affairs Officer

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44108
44112
44119
44105
44113
44109
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

DEPT. OF LAW – Subodh Chandra,Director, Galen L. Schuerlein, Acting Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Robert H. Baker, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Alan Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – James S. Higgins, Commissioner, 1404 East 9th Street
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael G. Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – John C. Mok, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matthew Carroll, Acting Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Commissioner
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Environment – Willie Bess, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Dr. Wendy Johnson, Acting Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – James A. Draper, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart,Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Edward F. Lohn, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Natalie A. Ronayne, Acting Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon,Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – James G. Williams, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Eduardo A. Romero,Director,
Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Steven Sims, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane E. Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Kenya Taylor, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Jeffrey D. Johnson,Director; Mayor Jane
L. Campbell, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell,Councilman Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L.
Patton,Jr., Paula Castleberry, Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline
Hardaway, Janet Jankura, Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harri s ,M agda Gomez, Fred J.
Livingstone, Margot James Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Jonalyn M. Krupka,Secretary; Members:Diane M. Downing,
Matthew Dotson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Jane L. Campbell,President; Council President Frank
G. Jackson; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Robert H. Baker, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516,Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Christopher Carmody,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F. Denk,
Chairman; James Williams,Arthur Saunders,Alternate Members – D. Cox, P. Frank,E.
P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Subodh Chandra,President;
Finance Director Robert H. Baker, Secretary; Council President Frank G. Jackson.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law Director
Subodh Chandra; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Utilities
Director Michael G. Konicek; Council President Frank G. Jackson.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Christopher S. Ronayne, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Chairman; David Bowen,Lillian W. Burke, Lawrence A. Lumpkin,
Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Sam Edward Small, Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela Caldwell,
Vice Chair; P atrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson,Draydean McCale b,Council Member
Nelson Cintron, Ed Romero.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia
Nolan, David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton, Council Member Merle
Gordon.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Cindy Barber, Vice Chair; Michael Doud,
Doris Honsa, Richard Lenard.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Subodh Chandra; Chairman; Finance
Director Robert H. Baker; Council President Frank G. Jackson; Councilman Dona Brady;
Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman; Donald
Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond Ossovicki, Chief Electrical
Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl S. Bumgarner,
Alfred F owler, Jozef Valencik,Lawrence Skule, Chief Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V.
Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Paul Volpe, Chair; Ted Sande,
Vice Chair; James Gibans,India Pierce Lee, Robert Madison,Randall B. Shorr, Chris
Ronayne, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Council Member Joe Cimperman,Dwayne J. Simpson; Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
Judge C. Ellen Connally
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
Judge Emanuella Groves
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
Judge Angela R. Stokes
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
Judge Joseph J. Zone

Courtroom
13C
15A
15C
12C
12B
14D
13D
14C
14B
13B
13A
14A
12A

Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts,Michael E. Flanagan – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak – Bailiff;
Kenneth Thomas – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JULY 23, 2003

Vol. 90

No. 4676

CITY COUNCIL
WEDNESDAY, JULY 16, 2003
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

COMMUNICATIONS

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Westbrook, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Britt,
Dolan, Gordon, Reed, Rybka.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Reed, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Coats,
Conwell, Jones, White, Zone.

File No. 1376-03.
From the Department of Purchases and Supplies re: Mayor’s
Emergency
Requisitions/Purchase
Orders — Structural and Roof Repairs to the Department of Public
Service- Lorain Avenue District Service Center. Received.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

File No. 1377-03.
From the Department of Public
Utilities re: Notice of Council of Subsidiary Agreements — East 68th &
East 69th Street Sewer Project. Received.

VALARIE J. McCALL
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2002-2005
MONDAY
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; White, Vice Chairman;
Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka,
Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Sweeney, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman,
Johnson, O’Malley, Polensek, White,
Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee: Lewis, Chairman; Conwell, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Johnson,
Reed, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Jackson, Chairman; Sweeney, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Britt, Coats, Gordon, O’Malley, Reed, Scott, Westbrook, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Cimperman, Vice
Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Jones,
Lewis, Reed, Scott, Zone.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00
vices
Zone,
well,

P.M. — Health & Human SerCommittee: Britt, Chairman;
Vice Chairman; Cintron, ConGordon, Scott, Polensek.

1:30 P.M. — Legislation Committee:
White, Chairman; Scott, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook.

1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: Coats, Chairman; O’Malley, Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cintron, Jones,
Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman, Rybka,
Vice
Chairman,
Conwell,
Lewis,
O’Malley, Scott, Westbrook.
The following Committees are subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Rules Committee: Jackson, Chairman; O’Malley, Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Scott.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats,
Chairman;
Cintron,
Reed,
Pierce Scott, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Wednesday, July 16, 2003
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Frank G. Jackson, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Conwell,
Dolan,
Jackson,
Johnson,
Jones,
Lewis, Polensek, Reed, Rybka, Scott,
Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Campbell, and Directors Chandra, Baker,
Konicek, Mok, Ricchiuto, Hudecek,
Williams, Fumich, Taylor, Williams,
Wisham, Ronayne, Acting Director
Carroll, Executive Assistants McGuirk, Tame, Mueller, Celeste Glascow, Director of Communications;
Margreat Jackson, Legislative Affairs Liaison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
prayer was offered by Rev. Keith
James Timco, of H.O.P.E. Ministry,
located at 14781 Sperry Road, Newbury, Ohio. Pledge of Allegiance.
On the motion of Council Member
Cimperman the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member
Johnson.

1659

File No. 1378-03.
From the Community Shares — St.
Clair Superior Spotlight, Volume 3,
Issue 6. Received.
File No. 1379-03.
From the Tobacco Control Coalition — Clean Indoor Air Laws Are
Good for Communities, May 2003
issue. Received.
File No. 1380-03.
From the Consulado de Mexico —
Thank you letter for Council’s support. Received.
File No. 1381-03.
From Hazeldell Elderly L.P. —
Thank you letter for Council’s support. Received.
File No. 1382-03.
From Union Miles Homes IV Limited Partnership — re: Thank you
letter for Council’s support. Received.
File No. 1383-03.
From Glenville Homes III L.P. —
re: Thank you letter for Council’s
support. Received.
File No. 1384-03.
From the City of Solon — copy of
Resolution No. 2003-154 re: Solon
Board of Education & HB 95. Received.
File No. 1385-03.
From the Department of Public
Service — re: Subsidiary Agreement,
Contract No. 60510, City Council
Office Renovations. Received.
File No. 1386-03.
From Senator George V. Voinovich
— receipt letter of Resolution Nos.
194-03 & 199-03. Received.
File No. 1387-03.
From the Council President Frank
G. Jackson — Council Member Business Expense Reimbursement Policies and Procedures. Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 1388-03.
From the Cleveland Foodbank —
Food for Thought, June, 2003, Issue
30. Received.
File No. 1389-03.
From the Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation — Thank
you letter for support sponsoring 8th
Annual Louis Stokes Community
Visionary Awards Dinner. Received.
File No. 1390-03.
From the Office of Equal Opportunity re: Certified MBEs and FBEs,
Reporting Period: Second Quarter,
2003. Received.
File No. 1391-03.
From the Office of Equal Opportunity re: Denials of Certification —
Second Quarter, 2003. Received.
File No. 1392-03.
From Office of Equal Opportunity
re: MBE/FBE Quarterly Deletions,
Second Quarter, 2003. Received.
File No. 1393-03.
From Corporate College West —
Corporate College is Open for Business, June 2003 Issue. Received.
File No. 1394-03.
From the Center for Families and
Children — 2002 Annual Report —
Hope, Dignity & Purpose. Received.
File No. 1395-03.
From Benjamin Rose — Strategic
Plan, 2003-2006 transitions. Received.
File No. 1396-03.
From the Rock and Roll Hall of
Fame and Museum — Liner Notes,
Spring/Summer 2003 Issue. Received.
File No. 1397-03.
From Fifth Third Bank — 2002
Community Investment Annual Report. Received.
File No. 1398-03.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Notice
of Subsidiary Agreement, Contract
No. 59537 — Cleveland Lakefront
Bikeway Improvements Phase II.
Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1399-03.
Re: New Application — 00189330005
— Attala Abboushi, d.b.a. One Stop
Foods, 3790 East 116th Street. (Ward
2). Received.
File No. 1400-03.
Re: New Application — 3884170 —
Clarinda C. Hodge, d.b.a. East 110
Drive Thru, 2609 East 110th Street.
(Ward 6). Received.
File No. 1401-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 4949244 — L. & B. 750 Club,
L.L.C., d.b.a. L. & B 750 Club, 440610 Warner Road. (Ward 12). Received.
File No. 1402-03.
Transfer of Ownership Application — 86994330005 — Sun Valley
Mart, Inc., d.b.a. Sun Valley Mart,
2700 West 25th Street, Unit B & C.
(Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1403-03.
Transfer of Ownership Application — 7645672 — S. K. Shire, Inc.,

d.b.a. Paninis Cleveland State, 2121
Euclid Avenue. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1404-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 35047070005 — Issam Hajj,
3916 East 123rd Street. (Ward 2).
Received.
File No. 1405-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 0298924 — Asimohori, Inc.
dba Pearl Road Tavern & Eatery,
4370 Pearl Road, first floor and
basement. (Ward 16). Received.
File No. 1406-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 7642439 — SNM Entertainment, Inc., 2000 Sycamore Street,
Unit 160 Atrium. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1407-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 3364740 — Greenwich Village, Inc., d.b.a. Greenwich Village
Cafe, 6410 Lorain Avenue. (Ward
17). Received.
File No. 1408-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 92654980010 — Vicary Co.,
Inc., d.b.a. Nautica Cafe, 1148 Main
Avenue, Unit 200, first floor & Patio.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1409-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 0079613 — Ahmed Mini
Market, Inc., d.b.a. Ahmed Mini Market, 11334 Miles Avenue. (Ward 2).
Received.
File No. 1410-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 7677421 — Farid Said,
d.b.a. Tom’s Food Market, 8202 Denison Avenue. (Ward 18). Received.
File No. 1411-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 5380045 — MKMC, L.L.C.,
d.b.a. Clevelander Bar & Grille, first,
second floors, basement & Patio, 83436 Huron Road (southeast). (Ward
13). Received.
File No. 1412-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 5297298 —
Lorain Lounge, Inc., d.b.a. Lorain,
4142-4146 Lorain Avenue. (Ward 13).
Received.
File No. 1413-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 6549546 —
1859 West 25th Street, Inc., 1859
West 25th Street. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1414-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 6549278 —
1146 Old River, Inc., d.b.a. Beachcomber in the Flats, 1146 Old River
Road. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1415-03.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 1164355 — C.
E. A. M. Investment, Corp., 1278 West
9th Street. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1416-03.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
7641682 — SJG, Inc., d.b.a. Alexandria Market, 7602 Madison Avenue,
West Side, first floor. (Ward 17). Received.

1660

July 23, 2003
File No. 1417-03.
Re: Transfer of Stock Application
— 87731650005 — T. & J. Beverage
Co., d.b.a. T. & J. Beverage Store,
12916 Forest Avenue, first floor &
basement. (Ward 4). Received.
File No. 1418-03.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
6193819 — Mostella & Walker, Inc.,
d.b.a. Golden Lady, 7513-15 St. Clair
Avenue, first floor. (Ward 8). Received.
File No. 1419-03.
Re: Liquor Agency Contract Application — 86994330005 — Sun Valley Mart, Inc., d.b.a. Sun Valley
Mart, 2700 West 25th Street, Unit B
& C. (Ward 14). Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 1420-03.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Contract
#59737, Henritze Park Site Improvements. Received.
File No. 1421-03.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Contract
#60554, Ward 21 Parks Site Improvements. Received.
File No. 1422-03.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Contract No. 59917, Division of Recreation — Gymnasium Floor Refinishing Project. Received.
File No. 1423-03.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Contract No. 58676, City Hall Carpeting
(Phase 5) Project. Received.
File No. 1424-03.
From the Department of Public Service — Contract No. 60510, City Council Renovations Project. Received.
PLATS
File No. 1425-03.
Penn Court — Alley Dedication
and Vacation. (Ward 13). Received.
Approved by Committees on Public Service and City Planning.
Without objection, Plat approved.
Yeas 17. Nays 0.
File No. 1426-03.
32 Clinton, LLC — Subdivision
Plat. (Ward 13). Received.
Approved by Committees on Public Service and City Planning.
Without objection, Plat approved.
Yeas 17. Nays 0.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1429-03—Anthony J. Celebrezze, Jr.
Res. No. 1430-03—Lena Hamilton.
Res. No. 1431-03 — Maynard H.
Jackson.
Res. No. 1432-03—Amelia Rivers
Boone.
Res. No. 1433-03—Henry Herbert
Bradley.
Res. No. 1434-03—Sarah Ozelma
Randall Mitchell.
Res. No. 1435-03—Frager Spates.
Res. No. 1436-03—Myrthul Gray.
Res. No. 1437-03—Fred Henry Fluellen.

July 23, 2003
Res. No. 1438-03—Evelyn Mae Johnson.
Res. No. 1439-03—Olivia Cash Moore.
Res. No. 1440-03—Gerald Sapatka.
Res. No. 1441-03—Joyce Ann Harris.
Res. No. 1442-03 — Dorothy Mae
Johnson.
Res. No. 1443-03—Robert R. White,
Jr.
Res. No. 1444-03—Dorothy V. Woolridge.
Res. No. 1445-03—Amanda Boulton.
Res. No. 1446-03 — William A.
“Sonny” Harris.
Res. No. 1447-03 — Andrew W.
Jones, Sr.
Res. No. 1448-03—Charles Cook.
Res. No. 1449-03 — Barbara June
Williams.
Res. No. 1450-03 — Larry “Coach”
Smothers.
Res. No. 1451-03—Joseph DiBello.
Res. No. 1452-03—Christina Payne.
Res. No. 1453-03—Joe Frollo.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1454-03—Mrs. Ollie Mae
Evans.
Res. No. 1455-03 — José Antonio
Giovannetti.
Res. No. 1456-03—Santos Sepulveda
Lopez.
Res. No. 1457-03—Roosevelt Kirby.
Res. No. 1458-03 — Officer Frank
Lee Bibb, Jr.
Res. No. 1459-03 — Reverend Dr. R.
Josef Moore II.
Res. No. 1460-03 — Chambers
Family.
Res. No. 1461-03 — Minter/Coker
Family Reunion.
Res. No. 1462-03 — Reverend Paige
A. Harris.
Res. No. 1463-03—Judge Patricia A.
Hemann.
Res. No. 1464-03—Kenwood Hall.
Res. No. 1465-03—Dr. Jack E. Crow.
Res. No. 1466-03—Valarie J. McCall.
Res. No. 1467-03 — Bert Wolstein.
Res. No. 1468-03 — Harry and
Kathryn Ritter.
Res. No. 1469-03 — Earl and Mary
Louise Simmons.
Res. No. 1470-03 — “Rebuilding Day
2003”.
Res. No. 1471-03 — Murtis H. Taylor
Multi-Service Center.
Res. No. 1472-03 — Brother Peter
(Timothy) Ancell.
Res. No. 1473-03—34th Anniversary
of LGBT Month.
Res. No. 1474-03 — Woodland
Cemetery.
Res. No. 1475-03—Steven A. Minter.
Res. No. 1476-03—Roosevelt Coats.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1477-03—El Barrio, Inc.
Res. No. 1478-03—Wanda Davis.
Res. No. 1479-03—Troy Lee James.
Res. No. 1480-03—Reverend Coleman Barnes and Muriel Barnes.
Res. No. 1481-03—Dominion East
Ohio.
Res. No. 1482-03—Sari Feldman.
WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1483-03 — Dennis Rahiim
Watson.

The City Record
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINACES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1203-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request.
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $17,050,000 for the purpose of providing funds for improving buildings and structures housing and providing for the discharge
of governmental functions and services otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and welfare and to
pay all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the
Bonds; to authorize agreements with
respect to the Bonds; and to authorize the issuance of notes in anticipation of such Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Seventeen
Million
Fifty
Thousand
Dollars
($17,050,000)
(the
“Bonds”)
to
finance the cost of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed
Seventeen
Million
Fifty
Thousand Dollars ($17,050,000) for
the purpose of providing funds for
constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating,
installing,
renovating,
enlarging and otherwise improving
buildings and structures housing
and providing for the discharge of
governmental functions and services
otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and welfare, including

1661

5
facilities in, of and for the City
Hall, police stations, fire stations,
service stations, centers and other
public facilities, and the provision
of necessary fixtures, furnishings,
equipment, appurtenances, utilities,
and site improvements for the purpose, and for the purpose of paying
all expenses incurred in connection
with the issuance of the Bonds,
including any financing costs within the meaning of Revised Code Section 133.01(K), and such other costs
of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with
the proceeds of securities as permitted by Revised Code Section
133.15(B) and as otherwise permitted by law; and to authorized the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Public Improvements Improvement Bonds, Series 2003”. The
Bonds shall be issued in one lot as
fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be
numbered as determined by the
Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
October 1, 2003, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 2003, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the bonds and signed by the Director of Finance in accordance with
this Ordinance (the “Certificate of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed seven percent (7%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed seven percent (7%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on May 15
and November 15 of each year or on
the days specified in the Certificate
of Award as the dates on which
interest on the Bonds shall be
payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”), beginning May 15, 2004 or
on such other Interest Payment
Date specified in the Certificate of
Award as the first Interest Payment
Date.
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
November 15 in twenty (20) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning November 15, 2004, or
according to the schedule set forth
in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i) each principal payment
shall occur on an Interest Payment
Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than November 15, 2003 and no
later than August 1, 2006, (iii) the
final maturity date of the Bonds

6
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(A)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys, to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption

The City Record
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the maximum redemption price shall
be no greater than 102% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one

1662

July 23, 2003
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption. then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due, and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,

July 23, 2003
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and

The City Record
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Revised Code and
the foregoing requirement that each
Bond bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”); provided
that the Escrow Agent shall also act
as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the “Agreement”) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
1203-03-A. The Agreement is approved, together with any changes
or amendments that are not inconsistent with this ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Directors of Finance and Law on behalf
of the City, all of which shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement or amendments to the Agreement. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Agreement
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register’). Subject to the provisions of
Section 5, the person in whose name
a Bond is registered on the Bond
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed

1663

7
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and
the principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii)
physical Bond certificates in fully
registered form are issued by the
City only to a Depository or its
nominee as registered owner, with
the Bonds “immobilized” in the custody of the Depository. The book
entry maintained by others than
the City is the record that identifies the owners of beneficial interests in those Bonds and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.

8
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to NatCity Investments, Inc., SBK Brooks
Investment Corp., McDonald Investments, Inc., Fifth Third Securities,
Inc. and Banc One Capital Markets,
Inc. (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”); provided, however, that if,
in the reasonable opinion of the
Director of Finance, an underwriter
is incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser

The City Record
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, final
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. If it is determined advisable
by the Director of Finance for the
sale of the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign agreements with a municipal bond insurer issuing a policy of municipal
bond insurance for the Bonds that
are not materially inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Mayor, Director
of Finance, Director of Law and
other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized and directed to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Director of Finance is
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on file with the
Clerk of Council in the File referenced in Section 3, together with
any changes or amendments that
are not inconsistent with this Ordi-

1664

July 23, 2003
nance and not substantially adverse
to the City and that are approved by
the Directors of Finance and Law
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement. It is
hereby determined that the terms of
the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may be provided in or
pursuant
to
the
Certificate
of
Award, are in the best interest of
the City and in compliance with all
legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an Official
Statement is appropriate or necessary in connection with the original
issuance of the Bonds, in his official
capacity he is authorized to prepare
or cause to be prepared on behalf of
the City an Official Statement and
any necessary supplements thereto,
and on behalf of the City to use and
distribute, or authorize the use and
distribution of, that Official Statement and any supplements thereto
in connection with the original
issuance of the Bonds, and he is
authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in his official capacity,
that Official Statement and any supplements thereto approved by such
officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver, on
behalf of the City and in his official
capacity, such certificates in connection with the accuracy of the
Official Statement and any supplements thereto as may, in his judgment, be necessary or appropriate.
The Director of Finance is also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the City that such
disclosure
document
is
“deemed
final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC
Rule”). The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services
for the production and distribution
of preliminary and final official
statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The performance
of that Agreement shall be subject
to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish

July 23, 2003
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2003”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance

The City Record
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by, an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation or such other
qualified organization, to be of such

1665

9
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Seventeen Million Fifty Thousand Dollars
($17,050,000) (the “Notes”) upon the
direction of the Director of Finance
to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding seven percent
(7%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of

10
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated “Public Improvements Improvement Bond Anticipation Notes,
Series 2003”; shall be issued in such
numbers and denominations as may
be requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form
(which may be in a book entry only
system) in denominations of $5,000
or integral multiples thereof. In connection with the issuance of the
Notes and the Bonds, Government
Capital
Management,
L.L.C.
and
Columbia Equity Financial Corp.,
either jointly or individually, or any
other financial advisor retained by
the city (the “Financial Advisor”),
shall serve as financial advisors of
the City. Interest shall be payable
semi-annually on the dates set forth
in the Note Certificate of Award;
provided that if the Notes mature on
or before the end of the twelfth
(12th) month following their date of
issuance, interest on the Notes shall
be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). Subject to the provisions of Section 5, the person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or

The City Record
by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Note Registrar. A Note may be
transferred only on the Note Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Note Registrar. Upon exchange or
transfer the Note Registrar shall
complete, authenticate and deliver
a new Note or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Note surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security ,and benefit under
this ordinance, as the Notes surrendered upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated ‘issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 2003”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and

1666

July 23, 2003
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
NatCity
Investments,
Inc.,
SBK
Brooks Investment Corp., McDonald
Investments, Inc., Fifth Third Securities, Inc. and Banc One Capital
Markets, Inc. (collectively, the “Note
Purchaser”). The proceeds of such
sale shall be paid into the proper
fund and used for the purpose for
which the Notes are being issued
under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged,
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the fill amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of

July 23, 2003
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the
“Code”) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (e) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield
on
investment
property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take

The City Record
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring; enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the
transcript of proceedings for the
Notes and the Bonds, setting forth
the reasonable expectations of the
City regarding the amount and use
of all the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds, the facts, circumstances
and estimates on which they are
based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the interest on and the tax
status of the Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance, were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provi-

1667

11
sions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

12
Ord. No. 1204-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $27,385,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve
the municipal street system and
related facilities and to pay all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the Bonds; to
authorize agreements with respect
to the Bonds; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed TwentySeven
Million
Three
Hundred
Eighty-Five
Thousand
Dollars
($27,385,000)
(the
“Bonds”)
to
finance the cost of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is seventeen
(17) years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Twenty-Seven Million Three
Hundred Eighty-Five Thousand Dollars ($27,385,000) for the purpose of
providing funds to improve the
municipal street system and related
facilities, including streets, expressways, roadways, driveway approaches and pedestrian walkways as designated, by acquiring, constructing,
reconstructing, opening, extending,
widening, grading, draining, paving,
resurfacing, lighting and curbing,
installing gutters, sidewalks and
related
pedestrian
improvements,

The City Record
constructing and improving retaining walls, relocating certain utilities,
resetting
and
constructing
catch
basins
and
other
storm
drainage
facilities,
constructing,
reconstructing, replacing, renovating
and
rehabilitating
bridges,
acquiring any real estate and interests in real estate, including easements, necessary for such purpose,
and installing signs, signals, markings and other devices for traffic
control purposes, together with the
payment of all associated preliminary costs and costs of site clearance and all appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto, and to
pay all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the
Bonds,
including
any
financing
costs within the meaning of Revised
Code Section 133.01(K); and such
other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be
financed with the proceeds of securities as permitted by Revised Code
Section 133.15(B) and as otherwise
permitted by law; and to authorize
the issuance of notes in anticipation
of such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated
“Bridges
and
Roadways
Improvement Bonds, Series 2003”.
The Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral
multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be
numbered as determined by the
Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
October 1, 2003, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 2003, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the bonds and signed by the Director of Finance in accordance with
this Ordinance (the “Certificate of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed seven percent (7%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed seven percent (7%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on May 15
and November 15 of each year or on
the days specified in the Certificate
of Award as the dates on which
interest on the Bonds shall be
payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”), beginning May 15, 2004 or
on such other Interest Payment
Date specified in the Certificate of
Award as the first Interest Payment
Date.
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
November 15 in seventeen (17) sub-

1668

July 23, 2003
stantially
equal
annual
installments,
beginning
November
15,
2004, or according to the schedule
set forth in the Certificate of
Award, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an
Interest Payment Date, (ii) the
first
principal
payment
on
the
Bonds shall be no earlier than
November 15, 2003 and no later than
August 1, 2006, (iii) the final maturity date of the Bonds shall be no
later than seventeen (17) years
from that date which is twelve
months prior to the first date on
which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable
in
annual
installments
such that the total principal and
interest payments on the Bonds in
any fiscal year in which principal
is payable is not more than three
times the amount of those payments in any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys, to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed

July 23, 2003
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the
principal
amount
thereof
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption
obligation).
Any
excess of that amount over the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement shall be
credited against subsequent Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements (and corresponding
mandatory redemption obligations)
in the order directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date
and the maximum redemption price
shall be no greater than 102% of
the
principal
amount
redeemed,
plus accrued interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds,
or portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least fortyfive (45) days prior to the redemption date or such shorter period as

The City Record
shall be acceptable to the Registrar. In the event that notice of
redemption shall have been given
by the Registrar to the registered
owners
as hereinafter
provided,
there shall be deposited with the
Registrar on or prior to the redemption date, funds which, in addition
to
any
other moneys available
therefor and held by the Registrar,
will be sufficient to redeem at the
redemption
price
thereof,
plus
interest accrued to the redemption
date, all of the redeemable Bonds
for which notice of redemption has
been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption of Bonds by lot when
Bonds of denominations greater
than $5,000 are then outstanding,
each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as though it
were a separate Bond of the denomination of $5,000. If it is determined
that one or more, but not all of the
$5,000 units of principal amount
represented by a Bond are to be
called for redemption. then upon
notice of redemption of a $5,000
unit or units, the registered owner
of that Bond shall surrender the
Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption price of the
$5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other
distinguishing marks, the Bonds or
portions thereof to be redeemed,
(ii) the redemption price to be paid,
(iii) the date fixed for redemption,
and (iv) the place or places where
the amounts due upon redemption
are payable. The notice shall be
given by the Registrar on behalf of
the City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day
preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the valid-

1669

13
ity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due, and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or

14
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Revised Code and
the foregoing requirement that each
Bond bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”); provided
that the Escrow Agent shall also act
as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the “Agreement”) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
1204-03-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved,
together
with
any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Directors of Finance and Law on behalf
of the City, all of which shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement or amendments to the Agreement. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Agreement
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange

The City Record
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register’). Subject to the provisions of
Section 5, the person in whose name
a Bond is registered on the Bond
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the
new Bonds are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Bonds exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Registrar shall authenticate and
deliver Bonds in accordance with
the provisions of this ordinance.
The exchange or transfer shall be
without charge to the owner, except
that the City and Registrar may
make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or other
governmental charge required to be
paid with respect to the exchange
or transfer. The City or the Registrar
may
require
that
those
charges, if any, be paid before the
procedure
is
begun
for
the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under
this ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:

1670

July 23, 2003
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.

July 23, 2003
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to NatCity Investments, Inc., SBK Brooks
Investment Corp., McDonald Investments, Inc., Fifth Third Securities,
Inc. and Banc One Capital Markets,
Inc. (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”); provided, however, that if,
in the reasonable opinion of the
Director of Finance, an underwriter
is incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds,
final purchase price (which shall
be not less than 97% of the principal amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that
Certificate.
If
it
is
determined
advisable
by
the
Director
of
Finance for the sale of the Bonds,
the Director of Finance is authorized to sign agreements with a
municipal bond insurer issuing a
policy of municipal bond insurance
for the Bonds that are not materially inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The
Mayor,
Director of
Finance, Director of Law and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized and
directed to take such actions as are
necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish the terms and requirements for
delivery of the Bonds and to make
such arrangements as are necessary with the Original Purchaser in
order to establish the date, location,
and procedure, and conditions for
the delivery of the Bonds to the
Original Purchaser, to give all
appropriate notices and certificates,

The City Record
to cause a true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the
issuance of the Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to
sign
any
transcript certificates,
financial statements and other documents and instruments and to
take such actions as are necessary
or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Director of Finance is
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the “Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the
Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on file with the
Clerk of Council in the File referenced in Section 3, together with
any changes or amendments that
are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not substantially adverse
to the City and that are approved
by the Directors of Finance and
Law on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase Agreement. It is hereby determined that
the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may be
provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an Official
Statement is appropriate or necessary in connection with the original
issuance of the Bonds, in his official
capacity he is authorized to prepare
or cause to be prepared on behalf of
the City an Official Statement and
any necessary supplements thereto,
and on behalf of the City to use and
distribute, or authorize the use and
distribution of, that Official Statement and any supplements thereto
in connection with the original
issuance of the Bonds, and he is
authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in his official capacity,
that Official Statement and any supplements thereto approved by such
officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver, on
behalf of the City and in his official
capacity, such certificates in connection with the accuracy of the
Official Statement and any supplements thereto as may, in his judgment, be necessary or appropriate.
The Director of Finance is also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the City that such
disclosure
document
is
“deemed
final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC
Rule”). The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services
for the production and distribution

1671

15
of preliminary and final official
statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The performance
of that Agreement shall be subject
to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2003”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax

16
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds. The proceeds from the sale
of the Bonds, except for accrued
interest thereon and any premium,
shall be expended and applied for
the objects and purposes for which
the Bonds are issued. Accrued interest and any premium received from
the sale of the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.

The City Record
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by, an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation or such other
qualified organization, to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section

1672

July 23, 2003
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed TwentySeven
Million
Three
Hundred
Eighty-Five
Thousand
Dollars
($27,385,000) (the “Notes”) upon the
direction of the Director of Finance
to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding seven percent
(7%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Bridges
and
Roadways
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 2003”; shall be issued
in such numbers and denominations
as may be requested by the Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered form (which may be in a book
entry only system) in denominations
of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof. In connection with the issuance
of the Notes and the Bonds, Government Capital Management, L.L.C.
and
Columbia
Equity
Financial
Corp., either jointly or individually,
or
any
other
financial
advisor
retained by the City (the “Financial
Advisor”), shall serve as financial
advisors of the City. Interest shall
be payable semi-annually on the
dates set forth in the Note Certificate of Award; provided that if the
Notes mature on or before the end
of the twelfth (12th) month following their date of issuance, interest
on the Notes shall be payable at
maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Notes (the “Note Registrar”); provided that the Escrow Agent also
shall act as paying agent for the
Notes so long as the Notes are held

July 23, 2003
in a book entry system. The Director of Finance shall sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, an agreement among the
City, the Note Registrar and the
Escrow Agent (the “Note Registrar
Agreement”) providing for services
relating to the registration, transfer,
exchange
and
payment
of
Notes. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of
the services rendered and for reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred
pursuant to the Note Registrar
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Notes to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). Subject to the provisions of Section 5, the person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar. A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note

The City Record
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security ,and benefit under
this ordinance, as the Notes surrendered upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated ‘issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 2003”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale to
the Note Purchaser by the Director of
Finance in the principal amount set
forth in a certificate of award to be
executed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”) at
not less than par and accrued interest and at a rate not exceeding that
set forth in Section 10 hereof. The
Notes shall be sold to NatCity Investments, Inc., SBK Brooks Investment
Corp., McDonald Investments, Inc.,
Fifth Third Securities, Inc. and Banc
One Capital Markets, Inc. (collectively, the “Note Purchaser”). The proceeds of such sale shall be paid into
the proper fund and used for the purpose for which the Notes are being
issued under the provisions of this
Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged,
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all

1673

17
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the fill amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes

18
and the Bonds in such manner and
to such extent as may be necessary
so that (a) the Notes and the Bonds
will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge
bonds under Sections 141, 148 or 149
of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 as amended (the “Code”) or (ii)
be treated other than as bonds to
which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of
the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required of
it for the interest on the Notes and
the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (e) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts
of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds
of the Notes and the Bonds to the
governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on
investment property acquired with
those proceeds, (iii) make timely and
adequate payments to the federal
government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable, of property financed with
such proceeds, all in such manner
and to the extent necessary to assure
such exclusion of that interest under
the Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds (and,
if different, the original issue and
any refunding issues in a series of
refundings), to the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on the Notes and the
Bonds from gross income for federal
income tax purposes, and the officers
identified above are authorized to
take actions with respect to those
issues as they are authorized in this
section to take with respect to the
Notes and the Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring; enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts

The City Record
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance, were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that
all acts, conditions and things necessary to be done precedent to and
in the issuing of the Bonds and the
Notes in order to make them legal,
valid and binding obligations of
the City have happened, been done
and been performed in regular and
due form as required by law; and
that no limitation of indebtedness
or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds or
the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing
with such readings by a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative

1674

July 23, 2003
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1205-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing
for the issuance and sale of Bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$10,330,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal
parks and recreation facilities and to
pay all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the Bonds;
to authorize agreements with respect
to the Bonds; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Ten Million Three Hundred Thirty Thousand
Dollars
($10,330,000)
(the
“Bonds”) to finance the cost of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and

July 23, 2003
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas,
this
Council passed
Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8,
1980, and thereafter amended that
ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions,
is referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms and provisions for the issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General
Bond
Ordinance
was
passed in contemplation of this
Ordinance and other ordinances
authorizing the issuance of bonds
in accordance with the provisions
thereof (the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Ten Million Three Hundred
Thirty
Thousand
Dollars
($10,330,000) for the purpose of providing funds to improve municipal
parks and recreation facilities by
constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating,
installing,
renovating,
enlarging and otherwise improving
parks and recreation centers and
areas, pools, skating rinks, greenhouses, bicycle paths, playgrounds,
playfields, golf courses and related
buildings,
structures,
walkways,
pavement and facilities, and providing necessary water systems,
drainage,
lighting,
signage,
fixtures, furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site improvements, together with all preliminary
associated research, planning and
development and all necessary and
incidental
appurtenances
in
all
cases, including the acquisition of
any required real estate and interests in real estate and to pay all
expenses incurred in connection
with the issuance of the Bonds,
including any financing costs within the meaning of Revised Code Section 133.01(K), and such other costs
of
the
foregoing
permanent
improvements that may be financed
with the proceeds of securities as
permitted by Revised Code Section
133.15(B) and as otherwise permitted by law; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.

The City Record
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Parks and Recreation Facilities
Improvement
Bonds,
Series
2003”. The Bonds shall be issued in
one lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
October 1, 2003, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 2003, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the bonds and signed by the Director of Finance in accordance with
this Ordinance (the “Certificate of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed seven percent (7%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed seven percent (7%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on May 15
and November 15 of each year or on
the days specified in the Certificate
of Award as the dates on which
interest on the Bonds shall be
payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”), beginning May 15, 2004 or
on such other Interest Payment
Date specified in the Certificate of
Award as the first Interest Payment
Date.
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
November 15 in twenty (20) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning November 15, 2004, or
according to the schedule set forth
in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i) each principal payment
shall occur on an Interest Payment
Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than November 15, 2003 and no
later than August 1, 2006, (iii) the
final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall deter-

1675

19
mine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys, to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and

20
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the maximum redemption price shall
be no greater than 102% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate

The City Record
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption. then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due, and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money

1676

July 23, 2003
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transferr or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Revised Code and
the foregoing requirement that each
Bond bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the

July 23, 2003
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”); provided
that the Escrow Agent shall also act
as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the “Agreement”) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
1205-03-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved,
together
with
any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Directors of Finance and Law on behalf
of the City, all of which shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement or amendments to the Agreement. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Agreement
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register’). Subject to the provisions of
Section 5, the person in whose name
a Bond is registered on the Bond
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally

The City Record
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book

1677

21
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to NatCity Investments, Inc., SBK Brooks
Investment Corp., McDonald Investments, Inc., Fifth Third Securities,
Inc. and Banc One Capital Markets,
Inc. (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”); provided, however, that if,
in the reasonable opinion of the
Director of Finance, an underwriter
is incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.

22
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, final
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. If it is determined advisable
by the Director of Finance for the
sale of the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign agreements with a municipal bond insurer issuing a policy of municipal
bond insurance for the Bonds that
are not materially inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Mayor, Director
of Finance, Director of Law and
other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized and directed to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions
contemplated by this Ordinance and
to take all steps necessary to effect
the due execution, authentication
and delivery of the Bonds. The
Director of Finance is hereby further authorized and directed to execute and deliver on behalf of the
City a bond purchase agreement
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, between the
City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the terms and conditions
on which the City agrees to sell and
the Original Purchaser agrees to
buy the Bonds, provided that such
agreement shall not provide for or
require the terms of the Bonds to be
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The Bond Purchase Agreement is
approved substantially in the form
now on file with the Clerk of Council in the File referenced in Section
3, together with any changes or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Directors of Finance and Law on behalf
of the City, all of which shall be

The City Record
conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond Purchase Agreement or amendments to the Bond
Purchase Agreement. It is hereby
determined that the terms of the
Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance
and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award,
are in the best interest of the City
and in compliance with all legal
requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an Official
Statement is appropriate or necessary in connection with the original
issuance of the Bonds, in his official
capacity he is authorized to prepare
or cause to be prepared on behalf of
the City an Official Statement and
any necessary supplements thereto,
and on behalf of the City to use and
distribute, or authorize the use and
distribution of, that Official Statement and any supplements thereto
in connection with the original
issuance of the Bonds, and he is
authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in his official capacity,
that Official Statement and any supplements thereto approved by such
officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver, on
behalf of the City and in his official
capacity, such certificates in connection with the accuracy of the
Official Statement and any supplements thereto as may, in his judgment, be necessary or appropriate.
The Director of Finance is also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the City that such
disclosure
document
is
“deemed
final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC
Rule”). The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services
for the production and distribution
of preliminary and final official
statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The performance
of that Agreement shall be subject
to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure com-

1678

July 23, 2003
pliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 2003”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under

July 23, 2003
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably commit-

The City Record
ted solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by, an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation or such other
qualified organization, to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Ten Million Three Hundred Thirty Thousand
Dollars
($10,330,000)
(the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the sale
of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding seven percent
(7%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall be dated their date of issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of

1679

23
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Parks
and
Recreation
Facilities Improvement Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 2003”; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples
thereof.
In
connection
with the issuance of the Notes and
the Bonds, Government Capital Management, L.L.C. and Columbia Equity Financial Corp., either jointly or
individually, or any other financial
advisor retained by the City, shall
serve as financial advisors of the
City
(the
“Financial
Advisor”).
Interest shall be payable semi-annually on the dates set forth in the
Note Certificate of Award; provided
that if the Notes mature on or before
the end of the twelfth (12th) month
following their date of issuance,
interest on the Notes shall be
payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). Subject to the provisions of Section 5, the person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as pro-

24
vided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Note Registrar. A Note may be
transferred only on the Note Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Note Registrar. Upon exchange or
transfer the Note Registrar shall
complete, authenticate and deliver
a new Note or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Note surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security ,and benefit under
this ordinance, as the Notes surrendered upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated ‘issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 2003”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express

The City Record
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
NatCity
Investments,
Inc.,
SBK
Brooks Investment Corp., McDonald
Investments, Inc., Fifth Third Securities, Inc. and Banc One Capital
Markets, Inc. (collectively, the “Note
Purchaser”). The proceeds of such
sale shall be paid into the proper
fund and used for the purpose for
which the Notes are being issued
under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged,
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the fill amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.

1680

July 23, 2003
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the
“Code”) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (e) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield
on
investment
property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the

July 23, 2003
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring; enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance, were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal

The City Record
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the

1681

25
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1206-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $7,235,000 for the purpose
of providing funds for public improvements of streets and municipal
properties and easements in residential neighborhoods and to pay all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the Bonds; to
authorize agreements with respect
to the Bonds; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Seven Million
Two
Hundred
Thirty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($7,235,000) (the
“Bonds”) to finance the cost of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms and provisions for the issuance thereunder of unvoted general
obligations of the City and the General Bond Ordinance was passed in
contemplation of this Ordinance and
other ordinances authorizing the
issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a

26
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Seven Million Two Hundred
Thirty-Five
Thousand
Dollars
($7,235,000) for the purpose of providing funds for public improvements of streets and municipal properties and easements in residential
neighborhoods by opening, widening, grading, draining, curbing and
paving
designated
streets,
constructing sidewalks, curbs and gutters and driveway approaches, installing storm and sanitary sewers,
water lines and storm drainage
facilities
as
necessary
and
installing street lighting and signs,
signals, markings and other devices
for traffic control together with the
provision of all necessary and incidental appurtenances in all cases,
acquiring real estate and interests
in real estate, including easements
necessary for such purpose, together with the payment of all associated preliminary costs and costs of
site
clearance,
and
to
pay
all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the Bonds,
including any financing costs within the meaning of Revised Code Section 133.01(K), and such other costs
of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with
the proceeds of securities as permitted by Revised Code Section
133.15(B) and as otherwise permitted by law; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated
“Residential
Neighborhood
Improvement Bonds, Series 2003”.
The Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral
multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be
numbered as determined by the
Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
October 1, 2003, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 2003, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the bonds and signed by the Director of Finance in accordance with
this Ordinance (the “Certificate of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate or rates per year
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed seven percent (7%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at

The City Record
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed seven percent (7%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on May 15
and November 15 of each year or on
the days specified in the Certificate
of Award as the dates on which
interest on the Bonds shall be
payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”), beginning May 15, 2004 or
on such other Interest Payment
Date specified in the Certificate of
Award as the first Interest Payment
Date.
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
November 15 in twenty (20) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning November 15, 2004, or
according to the schedule set forth
in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i) each principal payment
shall occur on an Interest Payment
Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than November 15, 2003 and no
later than August 1, 2006, (iii) the
final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than twenty (20)
years from that date which is
twelve months prior to the first date
on which provision for payment of
principal is made, and (iv) the principal
amount
thereof
shall
be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a) Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys, to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of

1682

July 23, 2003
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the maximum redemption price shall
be no greater than 102% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed

July 23, 2003
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notiae
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption of Bonds by lot when
Bonds of denominations greater
than $5,000 are then outstanding,
each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as though it
were a separate Bond of the denomination of $5,000. If it is determined
that one or more, but not all of the
$5,000 units of principal amount
represented by a Bond are to be
called for redemption. then upon
notice of redemption of a $5,000
unit or units, the registered owner
of that Bond shall surrender the
Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption price of the
$5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations
in
an
aggregate principal amount equal
to the unmatured and unredeemed
portion of, and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are

The City Record
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due, and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the

1683

27
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Revised Code and
the foregoing requirement that each
Bond bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”); provided
that the Escrow Agent shall also act
as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a ‘ook
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the “Agreement”) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
1206-03-A. The Agreement is approved, together with any changes
or amendments that are not inconsistent with this ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Directors of Finance and Law on behalf
of the City, all of which shall be
conclusively evidenced by the sign-

28
ing of the Agreement or amendments to the Agreement. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Agreement
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register’). Subject to the provisions of
Section 5, the person in whose name
a Bond is registered on the Bond
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the

The City Record
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified

1684

July 23, 2003
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to NatCity Investments, Inc., SBK Brooks
Investment Corp., McDonald Investments, Inc., Fifth Third Securities,
Inc. and Banc One Capital Markets,
Inc. (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”); provided, however, that if,
in the reasonable opinion of the
Director of Finance, an underwriter
is incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, final
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. If it is determined advisable
by the Director of Finance for the
sale of the Bonds, the Director of
Finance
is
authorized
to
sign
agreements with a municipal bond
insurer issuing a policy of municipal bond insurance for the Bonds

July 23, 2003
that are not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance. The Mayor,
Director of Finance, Director of Law
and other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized and directed to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript of proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Director of Finance is
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on file with the
Clerk of Council in the File referenced in Section 3, together with
any changes or amendments that
are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not substantially adverse
to the City and that are approved by
the Directors of Finance and Law
on behalf of the City, all of which
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Bond Purchase
Agreement or amendments to the
Bond Purchase Agreement. It is
hereby determined that the terms of
the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may be provided in or
pursuant
to
the
Certificate
of
Award, are in the best interest of
the City and in compliance with all
legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an Official
Statement is appropriate or necessary in connection with the original
issuance of the Bonds, in his official
capacity he is authorized to prepare
or cause to be prepared on behalf of
the City an Official Statement and
any necessary supplements thereto,
and on behalf of the City to use and
distribute, or authorize the use and
distribution of, that Official Statement and any supplements thereto
in connection with the original
issuance of the Bonds, and he is
authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in his official capacity,
that Official Statement and any sup-

The City Record
plements thereto approved by such
officer. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver, on
behalf of the City and in his official
capacity, such certificates in connection with the accuracy of the
Official Statement and any supplements thereto as may, in his judgment, be necessary or appropriate.
The Director of Finance is also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the City that such
disclosure
document
is
“deemed
final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 (the “SEC
Rule”). The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services
for the production and distribution
of preliminary and final official
statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the SEC Rule. The performance
of that Agreement shall be subject
to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B), Revised Code, the Director of Finance
may combine the Bonds with other
bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation Bonds, Series 2003”. Such
bonds shall contain a summary
statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state

1685

29
that they are issued
this Ordinance.

pursuant

to

Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges

30
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by, an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation or such other
qualified organization, to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satis-

The City Record
factory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Seven
Million Two Hundred Thirty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($7,235,000) (the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the sale
of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding seven percent
(7%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated “Residential Neighborhood
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 2003”; shall be issued
in such numbers and denominations
as may be requested by the Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered form (which may be in a book
entry only system) in denominations
of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof. In connection with the issuance
of the Notes and the Bonds, Gov-

1686

July 23, 2003
ernment Capital Management, L.L.C.
and
Columbia
Equity
Financial
Corp., either jointly or individually,
or
any
other
financial
advisor
retained by the City (the “Financial
Advisor”), shall serve as financial
advisors of the City. Interest shall
be payable semi-annually on the
dates set forth in the Note Certificate of Award; provided that if the
Notes mature on or before the end
of the twelfth (12th) month following their date of issuance, interest
on the Notes shall be payable at
maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”); provided that the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the
“Note Registrar Agreement”) providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of Notes. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). Subject to the provisions of Section 5, the person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Note Registrar. A Note may be
transferred only on the Note Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Note Registrar. Upon exchange or

July 23, 2003
transfer the Note Registrar shall
complete, authenticate and deliver
a new Note or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Note surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security, and benefit under
this ordinance, as the Notes surrendered upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Revised
Code,
the
Director
of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated ‘issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 2003”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
NatCity
Investments,
Inc.,
SBK
Brooks Investment Corp., McDonald
Investments, Inc., Fifth Third Securities, Inc. and Banc One Capital
Markets, Inc. (collectively, the “Note

The City Record
Purchaser”). The proceeds of such
sale shall be paid into the proper
fund and used for the purpose for
which the Notes are being issued
under the provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged,
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the fill amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.

1687

31
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
pursuant to Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Federal Tax Covenants. The City covenants that it
will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the
“Code”) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (e) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are

32
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer
of the City having responsibility
for issuance of the Notes and the
Bonds is hereby authorized (a) to
make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent,
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds as the City is permitted
or required to make or give under
the federal income tax laws, including, without limitation thereto, any
of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring;
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with
requirements
for
that
purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount
or
payments
or
penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (b)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments,
and
make
or
give
reports, covenants and certifications of and on behalf of the City,
as may be appropriate to assure the
exclusion of interest from gross
income and the intended tax status
of the Notes and the Bonds, and (c)
to give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting
forth the reasonable expectations of
the City regarding the amount and
use of all the proceeds of the Notes
and the Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Notes and the
Bonds.
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance, were taken, and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in those formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that
all acts, conditions and things necessary to be done precedent to and
in the issuing of the Bonds and the
Notes in order to make them legal,
valid and binding obligations of
the City have happened, been done
and been performed in regular and
due form as required by law; and

The City Record
that no limitation of indebtedness
or taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been exceeded in the issuance of the Bonds or
the Notes. It is further found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing
with such readings by a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the rules of this Council
have been fully complied with and
this Ordinance was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improve-

1688

July 23, 2003
ments which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1207-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of services
necessary for the storage of backup
media in secure off-site locations,
for the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of two years of the necessary items of services necessary
for the storage of backup media in
secure off-site locations, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the various divisions of
City government.
Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines.
Alternate bids
for a period less than two years may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies
under
a
requisition
against the contract or contracts
certified
by
the
Director
of
Finance. (RL 112164)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1208-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
acquire one or more software licenses for a citywide government treasury
management
system;
and
authorizing the Director to employ
consultants, computer software developers, or vendors or one or more
firms of consultants, computer software developers, or vendors necessary to install and implement the
system and to provide training and
maintenance and technical support,
for a period of two years, with three
one-year options to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts of one or more
consultants, computer software developers, or vendors or one or more
firms of consultants, computer software developers, or vendors for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
to acquire one or more licenses for
a
citywide
government
treasury
management software system, including implementation and training, and maintenance and technical
support services for a period of two
years, with three options exercisable
by the Director of Finance, to renew
for additional one-year terms, and
cancelable on thirty days written
notice by the Director, for the Division of Treasury, Department of
Finance.
The selection of the consultants,
computer software developers, or
vendors for the licenses or services
shall be made by the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Finance from lists of qualified software developers and vendors and consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Finance for the purpose of compiling the lists. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Finance, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 11 SF 006 and
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance, Request No. 100359.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1209-03.
By Council Member Britt (by request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Reserve Court N.E. hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the day of March 19,
2001, the Council of the City of
Cleveland adopted Resolution No. 8801 declaring its intention to vacate
a portion of Reserve Court N.E.,
hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 88-01 has
been served upon the owners of all
the property abutting Reserve Court
N.E. affected by said Resolution,
notifying the said property owners
of the time and place at which
objections can be heard before the
Board of Revision of Assessments,
and
Whereas, on the 24th day of June,
2003, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of Reserve Court N.E. hereinafter
described, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating Oliver Road S.W., hereinafter
described and that it will not be
detrimental to the general interest
and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and described as being all that
portion of RESERVE COURT N.E.
(20.00 feet wide), extending Easterly from the Easterly line of East
105th Street as widened about 190.00
feet be and the same is hereby
vacated.
Section 2. That there be and hereby is reserved to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as
above described for existing SBC
equipment.
That no structures shall be hereinafter erected on the premises
described in this easement except
those
constructed
in
accordance
with the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by
SBC, and the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of Reserve Court N.E., herein provided by sending him a copy
of this Ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public
Service,
City
Planning,
Finance.

1689

33
Ord. No. 1210-03.
By Council Member Cimperman
(by request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Conn Court N.W. hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the day of August 1,
2001, the Council of the City of
Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
939-01 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of Conn Court N.W.,
hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 939-01 has
been served upon the owners of all
the property abutting Conn Court
N.W. affected by said Resolution,
notifying the said property owners
of the time and place at which
objections can be heard before the
Board of Revision of Assessments,
and
Whereas, on the 24th day of June,
2003, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of Conn Court N.W. hereinafter
described, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating portions of Conn Court N.W.,
hereinafter described and that it
will not be detrimental to the general interest and ought to be made;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and described as being all that
portion of Conn Court N.W. (20.00
feet wide), extending Easterly from
the Westerly line of West 25th
Street (104.00 feet wide) to its Easterly terminus be and the same is
hereby vacated.
Section 2. That there be and hereby is reserved to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as
above described for existing SBC
and Dominion East Ohio Gas equipment.
That no structures shall be hereinafter erected on the premises
described in this easement except
those
constructed
in
accordance
with the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by SBC
and Dominion East Ohio Gas, and
the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of Conn Court N.W., herein
provided by sending him a copy of
this Ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

34
Ord. No. 1211-03.
By Council Member Dolan (by request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
portions of Fernshaw Avenue and
Riveredge Road S.W. hereinafter
described.
Whereas, on the day of June 3,
2002, the Council of the City of
Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
546-02 declaring its intention to
vacate a portions of Fernshaw Avenue and Riveredge Road, hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 546-02 has
been served upon the owners of all
the property abutting Fernshaw
Avenue and Riveredge Road affected by said Resolution, notifying the
said property owners of the time
and place at which objections can
be heard before the Board of Revision of Assessments, and
Whereas, on the 24th day of June,
2003, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of Fernshaw Avenue and Riveredge
Road hereinafter described, in accordance with the provisions of Section
176 of the Charter of the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating portions of Fernshaw Avenue
and Riveredge Road, hereinafter
described and that it will not be
detrimental to the general interest
and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Rockport Township Sections Nos. 13 and 18 and more fully
described as follows: Beginning at a
point on the Southeasterly line of
Riveredge Avenue, 60.00 feet wide,
at its intersection with the Southwesterly line of Fernshaw Avenue,
50.00 feet wide; Thence South 57°33'-26" west along the Southeasterly line of Riveredge Avenue, a distance of 77.93 feet to a point of curvature; Thence by the arc of a curve
bearing to the left and along the
Southeasterly line of Riveredge Avenue having a radius of 100.37 feet,
delta angle of 45°-13'-24", arc distance of 79.22 chord distance of 77.18
feet and chord bearing South 34°56'-44" West to a point of tangent;
Thence South 12°-20'-02" West along
the Easterly line of Riveredge Avenue, a distance of 70.74 feet to a
point; Thence Northwesterly by an
arc of a circle bearing to the left,
having a radius of 48.00 feet, delta
angle of 104°-28'-39", arc distance of
87.53 feet, chord distance of 75.89
feet and chord bearing North 39°-54'18" West to a point on the Westerly
line
of
Riveredge
Avenue;
Thence North 12°-20'-02" East along
the Westerly line of Riveredge Avenue, a distance of 24.26 feet to a
point of curvature; Thence by the
arc of a curve bearing to the right
and along the Westerly line of
Riveredge Avenue, having a radius
of 160.37 feet, delta angle of 25°-31'52", arc distance of 71.46 feet, chord
distance of 70.87 feet and chord

The City Record
bearing North 25°-05'-58" East to its
point of intersection with the Southeasterly line of Old Lorain Road,
60.00 feet wide; Thence North 62°50'-42" East, parallel with the centerline of Old Lorain Road, a distance of 53.36 feet to an angle point;
Thence North 71°-31'-12" East, parallel with the centerline of Old
Lorain Road, a distance of 132.76
feet to its point of intersection with
the Northwesterly prolongation of
the Northeasterly line of Fernshaw
Avenue; Thence South 32°-26'-34"
East, along said prolongation and
along the Northeasterly line of Fernshaw Avenue, a distance of 108.21
feet to a point; Thence Northwesterly by an arc of a circle bearing to the left, having a radius of
43.00 feet, delta angle of 99°-22'-08,
arc distance of 74.58 feet, chord distance of 65.57 feet and chord bearing North 82°-07'-38" West to a point
on the Southwesterly line of Fernshaw Avenue; Thence North 32°-26'34" West, along the Westerly line of
Fernshaw Avenue, a distance of
52.12 feet to the place of beginning
according to a survey by The Western Reserve Surveying Company be
the same more or less but subject to
all legal highways be and the same
is hereby vacated.
Section 2. That there be and hereby is reserved to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as
above described for existing Divisions of Water and Water Pollution
Control equipment, SBC and Dominion East Ohio Gas equipment.
That no structures shall be hereinafter erected on the premises
described in this easement except
those
constructed
in
accordance
with the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by the
Commissioner of the Divisions of
Water and Water Pollution Control
of the City of Cleveland. SBC and
Dominion East Ohio Gas.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of Fernshaw Avenue and
Riveredge Road, herein provided by
sending him a copy of this Ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1212-03.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Coats and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property n longer needed for public use
located at 4408 Detroit Avenue to
The
HARP
Restaurant;
and
to
repeal Ordinance No. 1161-01, passed
July 18, 2001, relating to the lease
of
City-owned
property
to
The
HARP Restaurant.
Whereas, the Director of Public
Utilities has requested the sale of
City-owned property no longer need-

1690

July 23, 2003
ed for public use and located at 4408
Detroit Avenue; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for
public use:
Premises to the Harp Restaurant
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
51 and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
West 44th Street (38 feet wide) now
vacated at its intersection with the
center line of an unnamed alley (10
feet wide) also vacated by Ordinance No. 751-98 passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland, August
19, 1998;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line about 16 feet to a point;
Thence
Westerly
and
parallel
with the centerline of said unnamed
alley about 73 feet to a point;
Thence Southerly at right angles
to the last described line about 16
feet
to
the
centerline
of
said
unnamed alley;
Thence Easterly along the centerline of said alley to the place of
beginning.
The above is a portion of the
unnamed 10' alley and Permanent
Parcel No. 003-12-003.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described
property
to
The
HARP Restaurant at a price not less
than fair market value as determined by the Board of Control taking into account such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests, as are deemed necessary or
appropriate by the Director.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed shall
contain provisions, including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control or Director of
Law protecting the parties as their
respective interests require and shall
specifically
contain
a
provision
against the erection of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That Ordinance No. 116101, passed July 18, 2001, is repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning, Finance.

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1213-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of not to exceed two editing systems and training, including
maintenance and technical support
for a period of three years, for the
Office of Cable TV, Department of
Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for each or all of the following
items: not to exceed two editing systems and training, including maintenance and technical support for a
period of three years, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for a gross
price, for the Office of Cable TV,
Department of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 11 SF 006,
Request No. 113395.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1214-03.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 31263 with Northwest Airlines,
Inc. to delete certain space from the
lease, and Contract No. 38171 with
Continental Airlines, Inc. to delete
certain space from the lease and to
add certain space to the lease for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into an amendment to Contract No.
31263 with Northwest Airlines, Inc.
to delete from Northwest Airlines,
Inc.’s right and obligation approximately 1,511.22 square feet of space
located on Concourse C, commonly
known as Holdroom C-10.
All other terms and conditions
contained in the original lease shall
remain the same.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into an
amendment to Contract No. 38171
with Continental Airlines, Inc. to
delete from Continental
Airlines,
Inc.’s right and obligation approxi-

The City Record
mately 1,068.55 square feet of space
located on Concourse C, commonly
known as Holdroom C-1; and to add
to Continental Airlines, Inc.’s right
and obligation approximately 1,511.22
square feet of space on Concourse C,
commonly know as Holdroom C-10.
All other terms and conditions
contained in the original lease shall
remain the same.
Section 3. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain additional
terms and conditions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1215-03.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 53666 with Michael Baker and
Associates
to
provide
additional
design services relating to the construction of new runway 6L-24R, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into an amendment to Contract No.
53666 with Michael Baker and Associates to provide for additional
design services relating to the construction of new runway 6L-24R.
All other terms and conditions
contained in the original lease shall
remain the same.
Section 2. That the costs for the
additional services shall be paid
from Fund No. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104,
60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, 60 SF 128, 60
SF 130, and from any funds or subfunds to which are credited any federal grants or federal PFC authorization, for the above project, and
the proceeds from the sale of any
airport revenue bonds issued for a
purpose which includes the project.
Request No. 133219.
Section 3. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain additional
terms and conditions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.

1691

35
Ord. No. 1216-03.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 57846 with JCDecaux Airport,
Inc. (f/k/a Sky Sites, Inc.) for the
operation of an advertising concession for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control for a
period not to exceed five years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into an amendment to Contract No.
57846 so that: (a) JCDecaux Airport,
Inc. (f/k/a Sky Sites, Inc.) shall provide the City with an annual minimum guarantee of sixty-five percent
(65%) of gross revenues or Seven
Hundred Twenty-five Thousand Six
Hundred Dollars ($725,600.00), whichever is greater; and (b) the number
of signs and displays shall be equal
to 133 (exclusive of exhibit displays,
courtesy phone center displays and
the eight directory-style displays).
Section 2. All other terms and conditions contained in the original contract shall remain the same.
Section 3. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain additional
terms and conditions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1217-03.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide design services, quality assurance, testing and
inspection services for smaller task
projects.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide design services, quality
assurance, testing and inspection
services for smaller task projects
for a period of one year, on an asneeded basis, for the various divisions of the Department of Port Control.

36
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001,
Request No. 133217.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1218-03.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to clean and
maintain oil/water separators, sewers, electrical vaults, holding tanks,
lift stations, and associated appurtenances, including testing and disposal of waste materials, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of two years for the necessary items
of labor and materials necessary to
clean and maintain oil/water separators, sewers, electrical vaults, holding tanks, lift stations, and associated appurtenances, including testing
and disposal of waste materials in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding year, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than two years may
be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be charged

The City Record
against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 113522)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1219-03.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of performing
asbestos abatement and authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter
into one or more public improvement
requirement contracts for the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland it is determined to make the
public improvement of performing
asbestos abatement, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control, by a public improvement
requirement contract let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders on
a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more requirement contracts for the making of the above
public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement for a period not
to exceed one year. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than one year may
be taken if desired by the Director
of Port Control until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire year.
Section 3. That the cost of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation account and the Director of
Finance shall certify the amount of
the initial purchase, which purchase, together with al later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies
under
a
requisition
against the contract or contracts
certified by the Director of Finance.
(RL 133212)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

1692

July 23, 2003
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1220-03.
By Council Members Westbrook,
White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 139.16 relating to applying and accepting federal and state
grants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 139.16 to read as follows:
Section 139.16 Applying and Accepting Federal and State Grants
That the Director of Port Control
is authorized to apply for and accept
grants from the United States of
America acting through its Federal
Aviation Administration, the United
States Department of Transportation
and/or its member agencies, and
grants from the State of Ohio, as
they may become available, to fund
projects related to the operations of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport. The Director is further authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to apply
for, accept and receive funds under
the grants; provided that the City
shall follow all applicable federal or
state regulations; and that any
grant funds are appropriated for the
purposes in the applications for the
grants, or any amendments thereto.
The Director of Port Control shall
notify this Council, through its
Clerk, of any grant or grants accepted under the authority of this section, on receipt of each grant.
That the Director of Port Control
is further authorized to pay cash
matching funds for projects approved by the above-named grantors
for grant funding. The matching
funds shall be paid from funds
appropriated for the use of the
Department of Port Control and any
existing or future revenue bond
funds, grant proceeds and PFC
authorizations.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Legislation, Finance.

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1221-03.
By Council Members Westbrook,
White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 139.17 relating to professional services to conduct audits
of vendors, tenants and concessionaires.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 139.17 to read as follows:
Section 139.17 Professional Services to Conduct Audits of Vendors,
Tenants and Concessionaires
That the Director of Port Control
is authorized to employ by contract
one or more auditors or one or more
firms of auditors to provide professional services necessary to conduct
audits of select vendors, tenants and
concessionaires of the various divisions of the Department of Port Control.
The selection of the auditor or
auditors or one or more firms of
auditors for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Port
Control from a list of qualified auditors or firms of auditors available
for employment as may be determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Port Control for the purpose of compiling a
list.
The compensation to be paid
for the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or
contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
That the costs for the contracts
shall be paid from funds appropriated for the Department of Port Control for this purpose.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1222-03.
By
Council
Members
O’Malley,
Westbrook, Sweeney, Cimperman and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the report of the assessment
equalization board on objections
concerning estimated assessments
for
improvement
of
Woodhaven
Avenue from West 63rd Street to
Ridge Road, West 98th Street from
Lorain Avenue to Walford and West
110th Street from Clifton Boulevard
to Franklin Boulevard by making
specified improvements along the
public right-of-way; determining to
proceed with the improvements; and
adopting the equalized assessments.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the report of the
assessment equalization board is
approved.
Section 2. That the assessments as
equalized by the board and recommended by it in its report are
approved, and the assessments are
directed to be filed in the Office of
the Clerk of this Council.
Section 3. That it is determined to
proceed to improve Woodhaven Avenue from West 63rd Street to Ridge
Road, West 98th Street from Lorain
Avenue to Walford and West 110th
Street from Clifton Boulevard to
Franklin Boulevard by relaying and
repairing
sidewalks,
driveway
aprons, and curbs (including adjustments of castings and landscaping,
if necessary), (the “Improvements”)
under Resolution No. 656-03, adopted
April 14, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1098-03, passed June 10,
2003 (the “Resolution of Necessity”).
Section 4. That the Improvements
shall be performed under the provisions of the Resolution of Necessity,
and with the plans, specifications,
and profiles approved and filed in
the office of the Clerk of Council
and in accordance with the estimates as equalized.
Section 5. That the estimated
assessments for the Improvements,
as equalized by the Assessment
Equalization Board, filed in the
office of the Clerk of City Council
are adopted.
Section 6. That it is further determined that the portion of the cost of
the Improvements to be assessed
against benefited property shall be
assessed in the amount, manner and
number of installments as provided
for in the Resolution of Necessity.
Section 7. That no claims for damages resulting from the Improvements have been filed.
Section 8. That the cost of the
Improvements shall be paid, prior to
the collection of assessments, from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 322, 20 SF 334, 20
SF 342, 20 SF 353, 20 SF 364, 20 SF
373, 20 SF 380, or 20 SF 383. This
Council determines that the City
expects to levy assessments in 2003
for the Improvements, and that the
City further expects and intends to
use proceeds of the assessments to
reimburse Fund No. 10 SF 034 the
moneys expended under this Ordinance.
Section 9. That the Clerk of this
Council is directed to deliver a certified copy of this ordinance to the
County Auditor within fifteen (15)
days after the passage of this ordinance as required by Section 319.61
of the Revised Code.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

1693

37
Ord. No. 1223-03.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the 2003 Cleveland Cuyahoga County Healthy Homes Initiative Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $79,902 and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term,
from the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health for the 2003 Cleveland Cuyahoga County Healthy Homes Initiative Program; that the Director of
Public Health is authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the summary for
the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1223-03-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
is
approved
in
all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if other funds become available during the grant term. Notwithstanding
the above, the Director of Public
Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant if the
extension
does
not
involve
an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1224-03.
By Council Members Britt and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
accept a grant from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for
financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Air Quality;
and authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts for the purchase of services, equipment and supplies necessary to operate the Division of Air
Quality.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to accept a grant in the approximate

38
amount of $2,877,265 from the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency
for financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Air Quality
in accordance with the purposes set
forth in the summary; that the
Director of Public Health is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes in the summary for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1224-03-A, made a
part as if fully rewritten herein, is
approved in all respects, including
the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds
in the sum of $393,000, from the Division of Air Quality’s General Fund
budget, in order the receive the
grant from the Ohio Environmental
Protection
Agency,
as
a
pass
through from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is
authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the grant period
of the necessary items of services,
equipment, and supplies, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Air Quality, Department of Public Health.
Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract,
or by separate contract for each or
any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
grant term may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 4. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance
and from the proper appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director
of
Finance shall certify the amount of
the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Health and Human Services,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1225-03.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair, maintain, and service MSA breathing
apparatus, for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year of the necessary items of labor and materials
necessary to repair, maintain, and
service MSA breathing apparatus, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than one year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
116582)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1226-03.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
New World Systems for the purchase
of maintenance for Aegis software,
for the Department of Public Safety, for a period of one year, with
two one-year options to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council has
determined that the within commodities are non-competitive and
cannot be secured from any source
other than New World Systems.
Therefore the Director of Public
Safety is authorized to make one or
more written contracts with New
World Systems on the basis of its

1694

July 23, 2003
proposal for maintenance for Aegis
software, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for a gross price, for the
Department of Public Safety, for a
period of one year, with two options
exercisable by the Director of Public Safety, to renew for additional
one-year terms, and cancelable on
thirty days written notice by the
director.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 111 SF 006,
Request No. 112684.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Council Member
the meeting.

Cimperman

left

Ord. No. 1227-03.
By Council Members Rybka, Johnson, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at 7515 Batavia to Gerald
Artl.
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties
has
requested the sale of City-owned
property no longer needed for public use and located at 7515 Batavia
Avenue; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for
public use:
Permanent Parcel No. 134-02-044
7515 Batavia Avenue
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot No. 11 in the Little and Sykora Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No 311 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 27 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Said Sublot has a frontage of 40
feet on Batavia Avenue and extends
back 120 feet between parallel lines,
as appears by said plat.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to sell the abovedescribed property to Gerald Artl at
a price not less than fair market
value as determined by the Board of
Control taking into account such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests, as are deemed necessary or appropriate by the Director.

July 23, 2003
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain provisions, including
such restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control or
Director of Law protecting the parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection
of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1228-03.
By Council Members Britt, Johnson, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to file a
Complaint seeking a Declaratory
Judgment voiding Deed Restrictions
for Property located on the northwest corner of Cedar Road and Murray Hill Road.
Whereas, on August 27, 1897,
March 3, 1898, and July 3, 1899, three
warranty deeds were recorded transferring part of Lot No. 411, Sub Lot
Nos. 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, and 35 of the
Martha B. Ambler subdivision, property now known as Permanent Parcel No. 121-13-022, (the “Property”),
from Martha B. Ambler to the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas,
the
above
warranty
deeds contain restrictive covenants
stating that the Property shall be
used for park purposes only, (the
“Deed Restrictions”); and
Whereas, these Deed Restrictions
no longer apply to or benefit the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the City desires to have
the Deed Restrictions released in
order to allow for the construction
of a condominium building at the
northwest corner of Cedar Road and
Murray Hill Road; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and file with the
Court of Common Pleas a Complaint
seeking a Declaratory Judgment
voiding Deed Restrictions for the
Property, in order to remove the
Deed Restrictions on the warranty
deed, which no longer apply to or
benefit the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1229-03.
By Council Member Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 2087 West 45th Street
to Patricia Zayas and Edwin Zayas.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 006-20-047,
as more fully described below, to
Patricia Zayas and Edwin Zayas.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 006-20-047
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
22 in Taylor and Hoyt’s Subdivision
of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos 48 amd 49, now in said
City. Said Sublot No. 22 has a
frontage of 40 feet on the Easterly
side of Taylor Street (now West
45th Street) and extends back of
equal width 131-6/12 feet deep as per
plat of said Subdivision recorded in
Volume 1 of Maps, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same
more less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such

1695

39
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1230-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Green Road to Tony
H. Smith, Sr.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 117-31-014,
as more fully described below, to
Tony H. Smith, Sr.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 117-31-014
Parcel No. 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Euclid Township Lot No.
17, Tract No. 11, and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the northeasterly
line of Green Road, S.E. (60 feet
wide), at the most southerly corner
of land conveyed to Harold A. and
Mathilda A. Keichel by deed dated
August 8, 1951 and recorded in Volume 7408, Page 307 of Cuyahoga

40
County Records; thence Southeasterly along the Northeasterly line of
Green Road, S.E., 50 feet to the most
westerly corner of land conveyed to
Seneca Builders, Inc. by deed dated
January 7, 1952 and recorded in Volume 7439, Page 270 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Northeasterly along the Northwesterly line of
land so conveyed, to the Westerly
line of Euclid Railroad Company’s
right of way; thence Northerly along
the Westerly line of said right of
way to the Southeasterly line of
land conveyed to Harold and Mathilda A. Keichel as aforesaid; thence
Southwesterly along the Southeasterly line of land so conveyed to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Parcel No. 2
Beginning in the center line of
Green Road, S.E., 60 feet wide at the
point distant Southeasterly 528 feet
measured, along said center line
from its intersection with the Westerly line of lands conveyed to
George J. Marott by deed recorded
in Volume 1745, Page 617 of Cuyahoga County Records, (said intersection being also the most Southerly corner of lands conveyed to Mary
M. Davis by deed recorded in Volume 6006, Page 77 of Cuyahoga
County Records), thence Northeasterly along a line at right angles
with the center line of Green Road,
S.E. at a distance of 30 feet to a
point in the Northeasterly line of
Green Road, S.E., at a true place of
beginning.
Course No. 1: Thence northwesterly along the Northeasterly line of
Green Road, S.E. a distance of 15
feet to a point.
Course No. 2: Thence Northeasterly along a line at right angles with
the Northeasterly line of Green
Road, S.E. to a point in the Southwesterly line of the Euclid Railroad
Company’s right-of-way.
Course No. 3: Thence Southeasterly along the Southwesterly line of
the
Euclid
Railroad
Company’s
Right-of-way to a point of intersection with a line parallel with a distance Southeasterly 15 feet at right
angles with the line described in
Course No. 2.
Course No. 4: Thence Southwesterly along said line parallel with and
distant 15 feet Southeasterly at
right angles from the line described
Course No.2 to a point in the Northeasterly line of Green Road, S.E.
and the true place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions

The City Record
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland.
The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1231-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent
Parcel
No.
115-01-015
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-01-015
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
30 in Lucian Gunn’s Heirs Subdivision of part of Original Euclid
Township Lot No. 1, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 18 of Maps,
Page
29
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 51 feet front on
the Southerly side of Aspinwall
Avenue, N.E., and extending back
140 feet on the Easterly line, (which

1696

July 23, 2003
is also the Westerly side of East
144th Street), 140 feet on the Westerly line, and having a rear line of
51 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-01-042 as
more fully described below to Euclid
St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-01-042
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
8 in the Aspinwall Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot No. 1, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 57 of Maps, Page 26
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 35 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 141st Street, and extending back of equal width 132 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-01-043 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-01-043
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
7 in Aspinwall Subdivision of part
of Original Euclid Township, Tract
No. 1 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 57 of Maps, Page 26 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 35 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 141st Street and extending back of equal width 132 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-02-014 as
more fully described, to Euclid St.
Clair Development Corporation.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-02-014
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
44 in Cowles-Brooks and Smyth’s
Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1 and 2,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 144th Street (formerly Rose
Avenue), and extending back of
equal
width
133
feet
deep,
as

July 23, 2003
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-02-021 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-02-021
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
111 in Cowles-Brooks and Smyth’s
Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1 and 2,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 143rd Street and extending
back of equal width 133 feet deep,
be the same more less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-02-070 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-02-070
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
25 in Nelson Moses Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot No. 1 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 9 of Maps, Page 35
of Cuyahoga County Records. Said
Sublot No. 25 has a frontage of 42
feet on the Easterly side of East
141st
Street
(formerly
Brooks
Avenue), and extends back of equal
width 133 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-02-073 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-02-073
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
22 in Nelson Moses’ Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot No. 1, Tract No. 16, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 9 of
Maps, Page 35 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 42 feet front on

The City Record
the Easterly side of East 141st
Street and extending back of equal
width 133 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-02-079 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-02-079
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 26 in the Nelson Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original Euclid
Township Lot No. 1, Track No. 16,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 of Maps, Page 35 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 45
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 141st Street and extending
back 133 feet on the Northerly line,
133 feet on the Southerly line, and
having a rear line of 45.80 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-02-080 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-02-080
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
27 in Nelson Moses’ Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot No. 1, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 9 of Maps, Page 35
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 42 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 141st Street and extending back of equal width 133 feet
deep, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-02-081 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-02-081
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
28 in Nelson Moses’ Subdivision of

1697

41
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot No. 1, Tract 16, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 9 of Maps,
Page
35
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 42 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 141st
Street, extending back of equal
width 133 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-02-093 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-02-093
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 10 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 205 and the Northerly
25 feet from front to rear of Sublot
No. 206 in Cowles, Brooks and
Smyth’s Subdivision of part of Original Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1
and 2, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land
35 feet front on the Westerly side
of East 141st Street, and extending
back of equal width 133 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-02-094 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-02-094
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 15 feet front to rear of
Sublot No. 206 and the Northerly 20
feet front to rear of Sublot No. 207
in Cowles, Brooks and Smyth’s Subdivision of part of Original Euclid
Township Lot Nos. 1 and 2 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 9 of
Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County
Records and together forming a parcel of land 35 feet front on the Westerly side of East 141st Street, (formerly Brooks Avenue) and extending back of equal width 133 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 25. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-03-002 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.

42
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
50 in Cowless Brooks and Smythes’
Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lots Nos. 1 and 2,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 144th Street (formerly Rose
Avenue) and extending back of
equal width 133 feet.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 27. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-03-003 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 28. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
51 in Cowles, Brooks and Smythe
Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1 and 2,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 144th Street, and extending
back of equal width 133 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 29. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-03-017 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 30. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-017
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
63 in Cowles, Brooks and Smyth’s
Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1 and 2
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 144th Street and extending
between parallel lines 133 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to and together with a
common driveway easement, recorded in Volume 6258, Page 51 and Volume 14688, Page 187 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 31. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and

The City Record
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-03-069 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 32. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-069
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No.166
in
Cowles,
Brooks
and
Smyth’s Subdivision of part of Original Euclid Township Lots Nos. 1
and 2, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 40 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 141st Street, and extending back of equal width 133 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 33. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-03-080 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 34. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-080
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No.177 and the Southerly 5
feet of Sublot No.178 in Cowles,
Brooks and Smyth’s Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot Nos. 1 and 2 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 9 of Maps,
Page
11
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and together forming a
parcel of land 45 feet front on the
Easterly side of East 141st Street,
(formerly Brooks Avenue) 133 feet
deep on the Southerly line, which is
also the Northerly line of Nell
Avenue, N.E., 133 feet deep on the
Northerly line and 45 feet wide in
the rear as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 35. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell Permanent Parcel No. 115-03-081 as more
fully described below, to Euclid St.
Clair Development Corporation.
Section 36. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-081
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 35 feet front to rear of
Sublot No. 178 in Cowles-Brooks and
Smyth’s Subdivision of part of the
Original Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1
and 2, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 35 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 141st Street, and extending back of equal width 133 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same

1698

July 23, 2003
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to restrictions recited in
Volume 1855, Page 147 of Cuyahoga
County Records, files July 30, 1956.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 37. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-03-082 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 38. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-082
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as all of Sublot No.
179 and the Southerly 2 feet of
Sublot No. 180 in Cowles, Brooks and
Smyth’s Subdivision of part of Original Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1 and
7 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 42
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 141st Street and extending 133
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 39. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-03-083 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 40. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-083
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 4 feet of Sublot No. 181
and the Northerly 38 feet of Sublot
No. 180, in Cowles, Brooks and
Smyth’s Subdivision of part of Original Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1 and
2 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together
forming a parcel of land 42 feet
front on the Easterly side of East
141st
Street
(formerly
Brooks
Avenue) and extending back of
equal width 133 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 41. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-03-096 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 42. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-096
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.

July 23, 2003
215 and the Southerly 4 feet front to
rear of Sublot No. 214 in Cowles,
Brooks, and Smyth’s Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot Nos. 1 and 2 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 9 of Maps,
Page
11
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 44 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 141st
Street and extending back between
parallel lines 133 feet deep as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 43. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-03-098 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 44. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-098
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
217 in Cowles-Brooks and Smyth’s
Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1 and 2,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 Page 11 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 40 feet
front on the Westerly side of East
141st
Street,
(formerly
Brooks
Avenue) and extending back of
equal width 133 feet along the
Southerly line of Nell Avenue, N.E.,
(formerly Cross Street), as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 45. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-03-107 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 46. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-107
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
“reserved” parcel of Cowles-Brooks
and Smyth’s Subdivision of part of
Original Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1
and 2 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11 of
Cuyahoga County Records, bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
Brooks Avenue, now East 141st
Street, at the Southeasterly corner of
Sublot No. 225, in said Subdivision;
thence West along the South line of
said Sublot No. 225, 133 feet to the
Southwesterly corner thereof; thence
South parallel with now East 141st
Street, Brook Avenue to the Northerly line of Sublot No. 226 in said Subdivision; thence East along the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 226,
133 feet to the Westerly line of now
East 141st Street, Brook Avenue;
thence Northerly along the Westerly line of now East 141st Street,

The City Record
Brooks Avenue, 40 feet to the place
of beginning, be the same more less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Easement
recorded
in
Volume
12137, Page 959 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 47. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-03-108 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 48. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-03-108
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
226
in
the
Cowles-Brooks
and
Smythe’s Subdivision of part of Original Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1 and
2 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 141st Street (formerly Brooks
Avenue)
and
extending
back
between parallel lines 133 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 49. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-04-005 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 50. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-04-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
74 in Cowles-Brooks and Smyth’s
Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1 and 2,
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Subdivision in Volume 9 of
Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said Sublot No. 74 has a
frontage of 40 feet on the Westerly
side of East 144th Street (formerly
Rose Avenue) and extends back
between parallel lines, 133 feet,
according to said plat.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 51. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-04-033 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 52. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-04-033
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 38.50 feet of Sublot No.
228 in the Wolfe-Sill Realty Company’s St.Clair East 104th Street

1699

43
Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lot No. 16 and
Original Lot No. 2 Track No. 10 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 59 of Maps, Page 12 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being
38.50 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 141st Street, and
extending back of equal width 133
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 53. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-04-045 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 54. That the real property
to be sold pursuant this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-04-045
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 30 feet from front to rear
to Sublot No. 25 and the Northerly 5
feet from front to rear of Sublot No.
26, in the St. Clair East 140th Subdivision, a part of Original Euclid
Township Lot No. 1, Tract No. 16,
and Lot No. 2 Tract No. 10, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 59
of Maps, Page 12 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together forming a
parcel of land having as footage of
35 feet on the Westerly side of East
141st Street, and extending back of
equal width 133 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 55. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-04-055 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 56. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-04-055
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 32 in the Wolf-Sill Realty Company’s St. Clair East 140th
Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lot No. 1, Tract
No. 16 in Volume 59, Page 12 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
being 40 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 141st Street and extending back of equal width 132.83 feet,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 57. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-04-056 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 58. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordi-

44
nance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-04-056
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
31 and the Southerly 5 feet from
front to rear of Sublot No. 30 in The
Wolfe Sill Realty Company’s St.Clair
East 140th Street Subdivision, of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot No. 1, Tract No. 16 and a part
of Euclid Township Lot No. 2, Tract
No. 10, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 59 of Maps, Page 12
of Cuyahoga County Records. Said
Sublot No. 31 and the Southerly 5
feet of Sublot No. 30, form a parcel
of land 45 feet front on the Easterly side of East 141st Street, and
extends back 132.83 feet deep on the
Southerly line 132.84 feet deep on
the Northerly line and has a rear
line of 45 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 59. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-05-050 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 60. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-05-050
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Euclid Township Lot No. 1,
Tract 16, bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line
of Aspinwall Avenue, N.E., (formerly Manchester Avenue) (60 feet
wide) at its intersection with the
Easterly line of East 144th Street
(formerly Rose Avenue) (50 feet
wide); thence Easterly along said
Southerly line of Aspinwall Avenue,
N.E., about 83 feet to the Northwesterly corner of the parcel of
land conveyed to Bernard Frank
Herman by deed dated April 16,
1908, and recorded in Volume 1143,
Page
626
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of said parcel so conveyed to Bernard Frank Herman
140 feet to the Northerly line of the
parcel of land conveyed to James
Duffin and Ellen Duffin by deed
dated June 24, 1911, and recorded in
Volume 1444, Page 262 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Westerly
along said Northerly line about 83
feet to the Easterly line of East
144th Street; thence Northerly along
said Easterly line 140 feet to the
place of beginning. Together with
an easement or right of way over
the Northerly 7 feet of the property adjoining the above described
premises on the South to be used in
common with other owners of abutting property as and for a private
alley or passageway, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Note: We have not made an examination of the easement or land it
affects.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.

The City Record
Section 61. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-05-090 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 62. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-05-090
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
186 in Nelson Moses Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot Nos. 1 and 2, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps,
Page
9
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 149th
Street (formerly Manning Avenue)
and extending back of equal width
140 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 63. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-06-016 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 64. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-06-016
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 5 feet of Sublot No. 167
and all of Sublot No. 168 in Nelson
Moses Subdivision of part of Original Euclid Township Lots Nos. 1 and
2 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 8 of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Records, together forming a parcel of land 45 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 149th
Street, and extending back of equal
width 140 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 65. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-06-032 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 66. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-06-032
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and bounded and described as
follows, to wit: And known as being
Sublot No. 126 in Nelson Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original Euclid
Township Lot Nos. 1 and 2, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 40 feet
front on the Easterly side of East
147th Street, and extending back of

1700

July 23, 2003
equal width 140 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 67. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-06-051 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 68. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-06-051
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
102 in Nelson Moses’ Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot Nos. 1 and 2 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps,
Page
9
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 147th
Street and extending back of equal
width 140 feet. as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject
to
driveway
easement
recited in Volume 7052, Page 562 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
filed
August 2, 1950.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 69. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-06-064 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 70. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-06-064
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
60 in Nelson Moses Subdivision of a
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot Nos. 1 and 2 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps,
Page
9
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 146th
Street and extending back between
parallel lines 140 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 71. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-06-075 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 72. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-06-075
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
44 in Nelson Moses’ Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot Nos. 1 and 2, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps,
Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Records

July 23, 2003
and being 40 feet front on the Easterly side of East 146th Street, (formerly Lyman Street) and extending
back of equal width 140 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 73. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-06-078 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 74. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-06-078
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
41 and the Northerly 2 feet of Sublot
No. 42 in Nelson Moses’ Subdivision
of part of Original Euclid Township
Lot Nos. 1 and 2 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps,
Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Records
and being 42 feet front on the Easterly side of East 146th Street, and
extending back of equal width 140
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Easement
recorded
in
Volume
12391, Page 839 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 75. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-06-088 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 76. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-06-088
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly .83 feet of Sublot No. 32
and the Northerly 30 feet of Sublot
No. 31, in the Nelson Moses Subdivision of a part of Original Euclid
Township Lots 1 and 2 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 8 of
Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said parts of Sublot Nos. 32
and 31 forming a parcel of land having a frontage of 30.83 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 146th
Street,
60
feet
wide
(formerly
Lyman Avenue) and extending back
of equal width 140 feet deep as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to easements and restrictions of record, if any.
Section 77. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-06-089 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 78. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordi-

The City Record
nance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-06-089
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 20 feet front to rear of
Sublot No. 30 and the Northerly 10
feet front to rear of Sublot No. 29 in
Nelson Moses Subdivision of part of
Original Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1
and 2, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 8 of Maps, Page 9 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
together forming a parcel of land 30
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 146th Street (formerly Lyman
Avenue) and extending back of
equal width 140 feet as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 79. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-06-100 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 80. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-06-100
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
20 in Nelson Moses Subdivision, Lot
No. 1 and 2, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps, Page
9 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the West side
of
East
146th
Street,
(formerly
Cyman Street) and extending back
of equal width 140 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 81. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-06-127 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 82. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-06-127
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 20 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 30, and the Southerly
10 feet from front to rear of Sublot
No. 31 in the Nelson Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original Euclid
Township Lot Nos. 1 and 2, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and together forming a parcel of land 30 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 146th
Street (formerly Lyman Avenue)
and extending back of equal width
140 feet deep, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 83. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

1701

45
plies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-07-004 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation
Section 84. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-07-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot
No. 159 in Nelson Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original Euclid
Township Lots Nos. 1 and 2, Tract
No. 16, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 8 of Maps, Page 9
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly side of East 149th Street, and
extending back of equal width 140
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
Subjected to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 85. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-07-036 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 86. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-07-036
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
14 in the Nelson Moses Subdivision
of part of Original Euclid Township
Lot Nos. 1 and 2 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps,
Page
9
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 146th
Street and extending back of equal
width 140 feet deep, the Northerly
line of said Sublot No. 14 being also
the Southerly line of Nell Avenue,
N.E., be the same more less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 87. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-07-070 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 88. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-07-070
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
82 in Nelson Moses’ Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot Nos. 1 and 2 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps,
Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Records
and being 40 feet front on the Westerly side of East 147th Street (formerly Clark Avenue) and extending
back of equal width 140 feet as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.

46
Section 89. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-07-085 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 90. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-07-085
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being rhe
Northerly 39 feet front to rear of
Sublot No. 139 in the Nelson Moses
Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lot Nos. 1 and 2,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 8 of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 39
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 147th Street, and extending
back of equal width 140 feet.
Section 91. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-08-031 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 92. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-08-031
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 130 feet of Sublot No. 90
in W.F. Walworth’s Subdivision of a
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot No. 1, Tract No. 16, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 8 of
Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the
Northerly
side
of
Pepper
Avenue, N.E. (formerly known as
Granger Avenue) and extending
back between parallel lines 130 feet,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 93. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-09-069 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 94. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-09-069
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 61 in W.F. Walworth’s Subdivision of part of Original Euclid
Township Lot No. 1, Tract No. 16,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 8 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet front on the Southerly side of
Pepper
Avenue,
N.E.,
(formerly
Granger Avenue), and extending
back of equal with 140 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same

The City Record
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 95. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-11-023 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 96. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-11-023
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and bounded and described as
follows: And as known as being the
Southerly 35 feet of Sublot No. 212
and Northerly 9 feet of Sublot No.
213 in Nelson Moses’ Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot Nos. 1 and 2, as shown by the
recorded plat of said Subdivision in
Volume 8 of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 97. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-11-029 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 98. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-11-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 20 feet front to rear of
Sublot No. 206 and all of Sublot No.
205 in Nelson Moses Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot Nos. 1 and 2, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 8 of Maps,
Page
9
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 60 feet front on the
Easterly side of East 149th Street
(formerly Manning Avenue) and
extending back of equal width 140
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 99. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-11-036 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 100. That the real property to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-11-036
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
9 in J.Prouting and others’ Subdivision of part of Original Euclid
Township Lot No. 1, Tract No. 10, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 22 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuya-

1702

July 23, 2003
hoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 150th Street (formerly Mars
Street) and extending back 139
27/100 feet on the Northerly line, 139
22/100 feet on the Southerly line and
having a rear line of 40 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 101. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 115-02-077 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation.
Section 102. That the real property to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-02-077
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
48 in Lucian Gunn’s Heirs Subdivision of part of Original Euclid
Township Lot No. 1 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 18 of Maps,
Page
29
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 141st
Street, (formerly Brooks Avenue)
and extending back of equal width
133 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 103. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 104. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 105. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 106. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1232-03.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone
Agreement
with
Parkview
Town Center LLC to provide for a
ten year sixty percent tax abatement
for
certain
real
property
improvements, as an incentive to
construct a new retail facility at
19609 Puritas Avenue in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council designated an area which is in
the City of Cleveland and described
in File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised Code
and certified the area as an “Urban
Jobs and Enterprise Zone” under
Chapter 5709 of the Revised Code;
and
Whereas, Parkview Town Center
LLC (the “Enterprise”) has proposed
to construct a new retail facility at
19609 Puritas Avenue in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City it would be at a
competitive disadvantage operating
at this location if taxes on certain
real property improvements, were
not abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property, and welfare and that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, and the
assistance is immediately necessary
or jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council approves the application of the Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives
on the basis that the Enterprise is
qualified by financial responsibility
and business experience to create
and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland Area Enterprise
Zone and to improve the economic
climate of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a ten year sixty-percent (60%) tax abatement for certain real property improvements as
an incentive to construct a new
retail facility at 19609 Puritas Avenue in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; the abatement shall be
subject to annual review of the Tax
Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 1232-03A. These terms shall not be amended, nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferable to any

The City Record
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
listed in Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve the
agreement and that the agreement
shall contain the terms and provisions the director deems necessary
to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning Finance.
Ord. No. 1233-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to consent to the assignment
of a portion of Enterprise Zone
Agreement No. 48586.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2237-94, passed February 15, 1995,
the Director of Economic Development entered into Enterprise Zone
Agreement No. 48586 with Skill Tool
& Die Corporation, an Ohio corporation (“Skill Tool & Die Ohio”), and
KMF II Limited for property located at 16151 Puritas Avenue, and 4520
West 160th Street; and
Whereas, Skill Tool & Die Delaware, has stated its intention to
undertake the obligations only of
Skill Tool & Die Ohio, retaining
KMF II Limited as a party to the
contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to consent to the joint request
of Skill Tool & Die Ohio and KMF
II Limited, to assign the remaining
personal property tax abatement of
Skill Tool & Die Ohio under Enterprise Zone Agreement No. 48586 to
Skill Tool & Die Delaware.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to execute all documents and
do all things necessary and appropriate to effect the consent to
assignment. A copy of the assignment shall be filed in the office of
the Commissioner of Accounts.
Section 3. That this assignment
shall be prepared and approved by
the Director of Law and shall con-

1703

47
tain any provisions as he deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Council
meeting.

Member

Dolan

left

the

Ord. No. 1234-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the U.S. Department of
Labor, Employment and Training
Administration for the Year 4 Youth
Opportunity Program; and to enter
into one or more contracts with
Vocational Guidance Services, Inc.
for the continued development, operation, and implementation of the
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the amount of $5,250,000.00,
from the U.S. Department of Labor,
Employment and Training Administration, to conduct the Year 4 Youth
Opportunity Program, for the purposes in the summary; that the
Director of Economic Development
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
summary for the grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1234-03-A, made a
part as if fully rewritten, is approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Vocational Guidance Services, Inc. for the continued development, operation, and implementation of the program as described in
the file and is payable from the
fund or funds which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

48
Ord. No. 1235-03.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency ordinance to repeal
the various sections of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
that comprise Chapter 670 of the
Offenses and Businesses Code, as
enacted and amended by various
ordinances,
pertaining
to
armed
security guards.
Whereas, the Chapter 670 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, pertaining to armed security guards, predates the regulation
of armed security services by the
Ohio
Department
of
Commerce
under Chapter 4749 of the Revised
Code; and
Whereas, in the case of Ohio Asso ciation of Private Detective Agencies, Inc. v. City of North Olmsted,
65 Ohio St. 3d 242 (1992) and in the
case of County Security Agency v.
City
of
Mansfield,
Case
No.
1:99CV2507 (U.S. District Ct., Northern Dist., Eastern Div.), certain
aspects of local regulation were
held to conflict with Chapter 4749 of
the Revised Code, resulting in invalidation of those particular ordinances; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, comprising
Chapter 670 of the Offenses and
Business Activities Code:
Sections 670.01 and 670.13, as
amended by Ordinance No. 90-96,
passed March 18, 1996; and
Section 670.02, Section 670.03, Sections 670.04 through 670.12, inclusive,
and Sections 670.14 through 670.99,
inclusive, as enacted by Ordinance
No. 163-C-79, passed March 30, 1981;
and
Section 670.04, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed January 27, 2003; are repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Safety,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1236-03.
By Council Member Scott.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 405.09 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1684-76,
passed June 29, 1976, relating to
impounding bicycles.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 405.09 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleve-

The City Record
land, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed June 29,
1976, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 405.09 Impounding Bicycles
Whenever any bicycle is operated
in violation of the provisions of this
Traffic Code, such bicycle may be
impounded by any police officer in
any vehicle pound established under
the
authority
of
Section
405.01.
When any bicycle has been impounded, written notice or personal
service shall be made forthwith by
the officer in charge of such pound
to the licensee of such bicycle, or in
the case of a bicycle licensed to a
minor under the age of eighteen
years, to the parent or guardian of
the licensee. The bicycle so impounded shall be surrendered to the
license or, in the case of a bicycle
licensed to a minor under the age of
eighteen years, to a parent or
guardian after payment of any
impounding charge and a full explanation of the reason for seizing the
bicycle. When any impounded bicycle is not redeemed within three
days after mailing of notice or personal service, a charge of twentyfive cents (25¢) per day but not to
exceed one dollar ($1.00) shall be
made by the officer in charge of the
pound and collected by the Clerk of
the Municipal Court for such impounding.
Section 2. That existing Section
405.09 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 1684-76, passed June
29, 1976, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Safety,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1354-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance rescinding the designation of Memorial
School as a Cleveland landmark.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2781-79, passed March 10, 1980, this
Council designated Memorial School
as a Cleveland Landmark; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
rescind the designation of Memorial
School as a Cleveland landmark,
and thus, relieve the property owners of this landmark from any of the
duties or penalties contained in
Chapter 161; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that the decision to
rescind the landmark designation
should be effective immediately so
as not to adversely affect the interest of the property owners of the
landmark; and
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1704

July 23, 2003
Section 1. That, under division
(b)(6) of Section 161.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the designation of Memorial
School as a Cleveland landmark, as
described in Ordinance No. 2781-79,
passed March 10, 1980, is rescinded.
Section 2. That the rescission of
Memorial School as a Cleveland
landmark shall be noted on the
Building Zone Maps of the City of
Cleveland on file in the Office of the
Clerk of Council and on file in the
Office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for that purpose by the
City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1355-03.
By Council Members Zone and
Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to name
the Ball Diamond #1 at Michael J.
Zone
Recreation
Center
“Coach
Smothers Field”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of Ball
Diamond #1 at Michael J. Zone
Recreation Center located in Ward
17, shall hereafter be named “Coach
Smothers Field”, and that the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized and directed to
take the necessary action to affect
said name change and to post the
proper signs.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Law; Committees on Public Parks, Property
and Recreation, City Planning.
Ord. No. 1356-03.
By Council Members Zone, Brady,
Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Conwell,
Dolan,
Gordon,
Johnson,
Jones,
Lewis, O’Malley, Scott, Polensek,
Reed, Rybka, Sweeney, Westbrook
and White.
An emergency ordinance to enact
Sections 186.01, 186.02, 186.03, 186.04,
186.05, and 186.06, of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
relating to public art.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

The City Record

July 23, 2003
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 186.01, 186.02, 186.03, 186.04,
186.05, and 186.06, of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
to read as follows:
CHAPTER 186
PUBLIC ART
Section 186.01 Purpose
The City of Cleveland establishes
a Public Art Program to promote the
welfare and prosperity of the community through the experience of
art in public places. The Public Art
Program also will accomplish the
following purposes:
(a) To give residents of all ages,
incomes, backgrounds, and ability
levels access to high-quality art as
part of daily life in the city;
(b) To give expression to the history, values, identity and diversity
of the City, its neighborhoods, its
districts, its buildings and places;
(c) To promote the revitalization
of the City and its neighborhoods;
(d) To provide opportunities for
artists to share their work with the
public;
(e) To involve residents in the
process of providing public art; and
(f) To integrate public art into
the design of buildings and public
spaces.
Section 186.02 Applicable Projects
(a) Project Cost. Public art shall
be required as a part of any of the
activities specified in division (b)
when those activities are undertaken by the City of Cleveland on property owned by the City and the project cost, as defined in 186.03, is
$350,000 or more. If an ordinance
authorizes the City to engage in an
activity specified in division (b)
where the total project cost is less
than $350,000 and requires public
art, the applicable provisions of this
chapter shall apply.
(b) Project Type. The public art
requirement shall apply to the following projects:
(1) construction of a new building
or other above-ground structure;
(2) renovation and/or expansion
of a building or other above-ground
structure if the cost of the work represents more than half the value of
the building or structure, excluding
the cost of renovating interior areas
not accessible to the public;
(3) development or redevelopment
of a park or plaza, excluding projects limited to maintenance, repair
and/or landscaping; or
(4) development of underground
facilities accessible or visible to the
public.
(c) Streetscape Projects. The public art requirement shall apply to
streetscape projects, including the
streetscape component of any street
reconstruction project. For purposes
of
calculating
project
cost
for
streetscape projects only, the project
cost shall include costs covered by
funds from which public art is
excluded as an object of expenditure.

Section 186.03 Public Art Requirement
(a) Required Funding. One and
one-half percent (1.5%) of the cost
of an applicable project shall be
devoted to provision of public art.
The calculation of project cost shall
include construction costs, including construction management costs,
but shall exclude costs for land,
interior fixtures and furnishings,
architectural fees, engineering fees,
and costs covered by funds from
which public art is excluded as an
object of expenditure. The cost of
an applicable project shall be calculated based on the amounts of
the executed applicable construction and construction management
contracts.
(b) Qualifying Public Art Pro jects. Public art required by the regulations of this chapter may take
the form of a discrete object of visual art, such as a sculpture or mural,
permanent or temporary in nature,
or may take the form of artistdesigned functional elements of a
project. An artist shall collaborate
on the public art required by the
regulations of this chapter.
(c) Location of Public Art. Public art required by the regulations
of this chapter shall be placed on
the site of the applicable project. If
the City Planning Commission, in
consultation with the Public Art
Committee, determines that placement of public art on a particular
project site would be inappropriate
due to inadequate public visibility
or public access, the Commission
may select an alternate site to
locate the public art. The Commission shall consult with applicable
City departments
to
make this
determination.
(d) Aggregation of Funds. If the
City Planning Commission, in consultation with the Public Art Committee, determines that the purposes of this chapter will best be met
by combining the public art funds
from two or more applicable projects, the Commission may authorize
the execution of a single public art
project using the funding from multiple projects. The Commission shall
consult with the applicable City
departments to determine the location of the public art.
(e) Ownership of Public Art. All
art located on City property and
acquired under the requirements of
this Chapter shall be owned by the
City of Cleveland, unless other ownership is specified in an ordinance
pertaining to a particular public art
project.
Section 186.04 Program Administration
(a) Responsibilities. The Cleveland
City
Planning
Commission
shall administer the Public Art Program, with the assistance of its
staff and advisory committee. The
Commission’s responsibilities shall
include, among others, the following:
(1) preparing and adopting guidelines, rules and procedures necessary to implement regulations of
this chapter, which guidelines shall
include a mechanism for neighborhood
resident
and
stakeholder
involvement in the public art selection process;

1705

49
(2) developing and updating a
citywide public art plan that identifies public art opportunities in the
City of Cleveland;
(3) establishing and maintaining
a registry of materials submitted by
artists for consideration by the Public Art Committee;
(4) issuing requests for proposals
and conducting the process of selecting artists and artwork for each project;
(5) developing and maintaining
an inventory of public art in the
City of Cleveland, and producing
and disseminating educational and
promotional
materials
regarding
these works of art;
(6) ensuring widespread public
participation in the Public Art Program;
(7) coordinating public art projects with participating City departments and other participating agencies and organizations;
(8) establishing a schedule and
standards for maintenance of public
art in consultation with the artist,
if feasible; and
(9)
providing
periodic
written
reports to the Mayor and to City
Council, no less frequently than
once every six months, documenting
activities,
accomplishments
and
expenditures
and
demonstrating
compliance with the regulations of
this chapter.
(b) Public Art Committee The
City Planning Commission shall
establish an advisory committee, to
be known as the Public Art Committee, to advise and assist the Commission in conducting the Public Art
Program.
(c) Public Art Committee Mem bership The Public Art Committee
shall be composed of the following
members, each appointed by the
Chairman of the City Planning
Commission on nomination by the
Mayor, unless otherwise stated:
(1) a visual artist;
(2) an administrator of an arts
organization;
(3) a recognized expert in the
field of public art;
(4) a City resident active in community affairs;
(5) a staff member of a City
department that engages in projects
subject to the provisions of this
chapter, who shall be chairperson of
the Committee;
(6) a professional architect or
landscape architect;
(7) a member of Cleveland City
Council or its staff, appointed by the
President of City Council; and
(8) two community representatives appointed on a project-specific
basis by the City Councilmember in
whose ward a public art project has
been proposed.
(d) Committee Members Terms of
Appointment. The term for members
of the Public Art Committee shall be
two years, except that the initial
Committee members described in
(2), (4) and (6) of division (c) shall
have a one-year term. After that
one-year term, the term for the Committee members described in (2), (4)
and (6) of division (c) shall be two
years. The two community representatives appointed on a projectspecific basis shall not have a term,
but shall serve on the Committee

50
only for the duration of deliberations on the particular public art
project
for
which
they
were
appointed.
(e) Committee Meetings. The Public Art Committee shall meet monthly, except when there is no business
to conduct. The meetings shall be
conducted under rules and procedures adopted by the Committee and
approved by the City Planning Commission.
(f) Committee Member Compensa tion. Members of the Public Art
Committee shall not receive monetary compensation for their services
to the Committee.
Section 186.05 Selection of Art
(a) Selection Process. The City
Planning Commission, through its
Public Art Committee shall solicit,
review and select artwork under the
following provisions:
(1) Community Participation. The
Public Art Committee shall engage
local residents, other local stakeholders, and the local City Councilmember in the process of selecting public art for a particular location. As required in Section 186.04,
two
community
representatives
appointed by the local Councilmember shall be added to the Committee
as voting members for the purpose
of project selection.
(2) Project Concept. The Committee shall work with the applicable
department and the project design
team to establish the goals for each
public art project, including suitable
locations and appropriate formats.
(3) Selection Method. The Committee shall recommend to the City
Planning
Commission
the
most
appropriate
method
of
selecting
each public art project. Possible
selection methods include open competition and invitational competition.
(4) Submission Options. The Committee shall recommend to the City
Planning
Commission
submission
requirements for each public art project.
(5) Approval. The Public Art Committee shall make its recommendation for a public art project to the
City Planning Commission, which
shall make the final determination.
Alternatively, the Committee or the
Commission may choose to make no
selection and to re-open the competition.
(b) Selection Criteria. In selecting
artwork, the Public Art Committee
and the City Planning Commission
shall consider, among others, the following
factors:
artistic
quality,
appropriateness of the artwork to
its context, durability and resistance
to the environment and vandalism,
safety, feasibility of implementation, and the contribution the art
makes to a citywide public art collection that reflects the diversity of
the community and a diversity of
forms of artistic expression.
(c)
Representation
of
Local
Artists. It is the intent of the City
that at least fifty percent (50%) of
the art installed under the regulations of this chapter be created by
artists living or working in the City
of Cleveland. Achievement of this
goal shall be measured in 5-year
increments.

The City Record
Section 186.06 Maintenance and
Removal
(a) Maintenance. The City department having jurisdiction over the
site on which the art has been
placed shall maintain public art
installed under the regulations of
this chapter, unless other maintenance
responsibilities
are
established by City ordinance. All maintenance shall be conducted pursuant
to the schedule and standards established by the City Planning Commission.
(b) Removal. In the event that a
work of art needs to be removed due
to its condition, changes to its site,
or other factors, the Public Art Committee shall recommend to the City
Planning
Commission
the
most
appropriate means of removal and
disposition, making a reasonable
effort to consult with the artist
responsible for the artwork.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1357-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase property
for future redevelopment at 813
Alhambra Road for the Department
of Community Development; and
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to convey
the property to Northeast Shores
Development Corp.
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
purchase of property which is located at 813 Alhambra Road, for future
redevelopment; and
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
sale of the property to Northeast
Shores Development Corp. for the
public purpose of development of
the property; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following described
property for future redevelopment:
813 Alhambra Road
Permanent Parcel No. 115-26-145
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
No. 78 in the Wolfe Sill Realty Co.’s
St. Clair London Road Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township
Lot Nos. 9 and 42 in Tract No. 10 as
shown by the recorded plat in Vol-

1706

July 23, 2003
ume 54 of Maps, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet front on the Northeasterly side
of Alhambra Road N.E., 84.37 feet
deep on the Southeasterly line, 84.92
feet deep on the Northwesterly line
and 40 feet in the rear, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2.
That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire and to convey the
property and to employ and pay all
fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits, and all other costs necessary
for the acquisition of the property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for this property shall be
one dollar and other valuable considerations, the total value of which
shall not exceed fair market value.
Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 028.
Section 5. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Title V of the Community
Development Code in the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Director of Community Development may enter into and execute a
project agreement for and on behalf
of the City of Cleveland with the
Northeast Shores Development Corp.,
for the acquisition, disposition and
private redevelopment of the property described in this ordinance.
Section 6. That this Council finds
that the conveyance to the Northeast
Shores Development Corp. constitutes a public use of the property
for the purposes of redevelopment.
Section 7. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
property previously described in this
ordinance to the Northeast Shores
Development Corp, for a price of one
dollar
taking
into
account
all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances placed by
the City of Cleveland in the deed of
conveyance.
Section 8. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require
and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any
advertising
signs
or
billboards
except
permitted
identification
signs.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning

July 23, 2003
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1358-03.
By Council Member Scott.
An emergency ordinance designating
the
Ernst
Schellentrager
House as a Cleveland Landmark
Whereas,
the
Cleveland
Landmarks Commission (the “Commission”) pursuant to Chapter 161 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, has proposed the
designation of The Ernst Schellentrager House as a landmark; and
Whereas, the owner of The Ernst
Schellentrager House has been properly notified of the proposed designation and has consented in writing
to the proposed designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of The Ernst
Schellentrager House as a landmark
and has set forth certain findings of
fact constituting the basis for its
decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That The Ernst Schellentrager
House,
whose
street
address in the City of Cleveland is
690
Lakeview
Road,
N.E.,
also
known as Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel number 10828-095 and the land embracing the
site thereof, which in its entirety is
a property having special character
or special historical or aesthetic
value as part of the development,
heritage, or cultural characteristics
of the City, State, or the United
States, be and it hereby is designated a landmark pursuant to Chapter 161 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure, and provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1359-03.
By Council Members Britt, Gordon,
Cimperman, Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase property
for future redevelopment at 10510
Park Lane for the Department of
Community Development.
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
purchase, when vacant, of property
which is located at 10510 Park Lane,
for future redevelopment; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following described
property for future redevelopment:
Park Lane Villa Premises
10510 Park Lane
Cleveland, Ohio
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
402, further bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at a stone monument in
the center line of East 105th Street,
60 feet wide, at its intersection with
the Northerly line of Park Lane,
30.00 feet wide;
Thence North 89° 42' 22" East,
along said Northerly line of Park
Lane, 30.00 feet to a point therein;
Thence South, 30.00 feet to a point
in the Southerly line of said Park
Lane and the principal place of
beginning;
Thence North 89° 42' 22" East,
along said Southerly line of Park
Lane, 310.00 feet to a point therein;
Thence South, 262.71 feet to a
point;
Thence North 89° 59' 20" West,
310.00 feet to a drill hole in the Easterly line of the aforementioned East
105th Street;
Thence North, along said Easterly
line of 105th Street, 261.06 feet to the
principal place of beginning be the
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways and containing 1.864
acres, and being according to a survey dated May 16, 1978, made by
Seymour D. Weiss, Registered Surveyor No. 4759.
Parcel No. 119-20-001 and 119-20-022
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire and to convey the
property and to employ and pay all
fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits, and all other costs necessary
for the acquisition of the property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for this property shall be
ten dollars and other valuable considerations, the total value of which
shall not exceed fair market value.
Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 028.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.

1707

51
FIRST READING
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1237-03.
By Council Member Cintron.
An
ordinance establishing
the
Clark Metro Business Revitalization
District (Map Change No. 2082, Sheet
Nos. 1 and 2).
Whereas, the Board of Trustees of
Clark Metro Development Corporation has submitted a written request
dated June 24, 2003, to the City Planning Commission for designation of
a Business Revitalization District in
accordance with the procedures outlined in Chapter 303 of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, such request is accompanied by a map identifying the boundaries of the proposed District; and
Whereas, the City Planning Commission has determined that the proposed District meets the criteria for
designation set forth in Section
303.04 of Chapter 303 of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clark Metro
Business Revitalization District is
hereby established and includes the
areas shown on the map in File No.
1237-03-A.
Section 2. That the designation of
the area set forth in Section 1 hereof as the Clark Metro Business Revitalization District shall be noted on
the Building Zone Maps of the City
of Cleveland on file in the office of
the Clerk of Council and on file in
the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for such purpose by the
City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1238-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An ordinance to expand the East
156th Street/Waterloo Business Revitalization District. (Map Change
No. 2081, Sheet No. 7)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the East 156th
Street/Waterloo Business Revitalization District, as established by
Ordinance No. 657-99, is hereby expanded to include the areas shown
on the map in File No. 1238-03-A.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 2081, Sheet No. 7, and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.

The City Record

52

July 23, 2003

Ord. No. 1353-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change of properties on the northwest corner of East 61st Street and St. Clair Avenue to a Two-Family
Residential District and a “B” Area District (Map Change No. 2083, Sheet No. 4).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area Districts of lands described as follows:
Permanent Parcel No. 105-08-005 located at 6031 St. Clair Avenue and Permanent Parcel No. 105-08-006 located at 6027 St.
Clair Avenue; and
One half the width of the street right-of-way of the portions of St. Clair Avenue and East 61st Street abutting the aforementioned parcels;
and as outlined and shaded on the attached map is changed to a Two-Family Residential District and a “B” Area
District.
Section 2 . That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2083,
Sheet No. 4, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION RFERRED
Res. No. 1239-03.
By Council Members O’Malley,
Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the necessity and intention to
appropriate property for public use
as a recreational play field, located
at 4103 Memphis Avenue; and to
repeal Resolution No. 573-01, adopted March 26, 2001, which declared
the necessity and intention to appropriate property at 4103 Memphis
Avenue for the use as a public
school and children’s playground.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of developing a recreational
play field, located at 4103 Memphis
Avenue, it is necessary to appropriate in fee simple interest and this
Council declares its intent to appropriate the fee simple interest in and
to the following described property:
4103 Memphis Avenue
Permanent Parcel No. 014-13-014
Parcel No. 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublots
Number. 203, 204, 205, 186, 187 and
188 in The Brooklyn Realty Company’s Subdivision No. 2 of part of

1708

Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 58 as shown by the recorded
plat of said subdivision in Volume
40 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga
County Records. Said Sublots Numbers 203, 204 and 205 together form
a parcel of land having a frontage
of 120 feet on the Southerly side of
Memphis Avenue, S.W., and extending back 121 86/100 feet on the
Easterly line, 121 92/100 feet on the
Westerly line and having a rear
line of 120 feet. Said Sublots Numbers 186, 187 and 188 together form
a parcel of land having a frontage
of 120 feet on the Northerly side of
Henritze Avenue, S.W., and extending back between parallel lines 122
feet according to said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.

July 23, 2003
Parcel No. 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublots 189, 190, 191, 192, 193, 194,
195, 196, 197, 198, 199, 200, 201 and
202 in the Brooklyn Realty Company’s Subdivision No. 2 of a part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 58 as shown by the recorded
plat of said Subdivision in Volume
40, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County
Records.
Said
Sublots
together
forming a parcel of land having a
frontage of 280.28 feet on the
Southerly line of Memphis Avenue,
S.W., 243.72 feet on the Westerly
line of West 41st Street and 280.28
feet on the Northerly line of Henritze Avenue S.W., and measuring
243.86 feet on its Westerly line, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to cause
written notice of the adoption of
this resolution to be given to the
owners, persons in possession or
having an interest or record in the
above-mentioned
premises,
and
such notice shall be served according to law by a person to be designated for that purpose by the
Director of Finance which return
shall be made in the manner provided by law.
Section 3. That Resolution No. 57301, adopted March 26, 2001, is repealed.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1240-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase properties
for the purpose of expanding homeowner’s yards along the I-176 Jennings Freeway from the Ohio Department
of
Transportation;
and
authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to convey the
properties to adjacent homeowners.
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
purchase of properties which are
along the I-176 Jennings Freeway
for the purpose of expanding homeowner’s yards; and
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
sale of these properties to adjacent
property owners; and
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has determined
that sale of these properties to adjacent property owners is a satisfactory means of achieving redevelopment of the properties; and

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following properties
for the purpose of expanding homeowner’s properties:
Parcels 1160 WL, 1159 WL, 1158
WL, 1157 WL and 1156 WL
Portions of Permanent Parcel Nos.
009-36-006, 009-36-007, 009-36-008,
009-25-011, 009-25-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
81
and
further
bounded
and
described as follows;
Beginning at a 1" iron pin monument found on the centerline of Jennings Road, 60 feet wide, said point
being North 18° 38' 00" East, 49.37
feet from the intersection of the centerlines
of
Jennings
Road
and
Spring Road, 60 feet wide;
Thence North 18° 38' 00" East
along the centerline of Jennings
Road, 496.40 feet to a point;
Thence South 71° 22' 00" East,
30.00 feet to a 3/4" iron pipe found
(0.64 feet south and 0.17 feet east)
on the Easterly line of Jennings
Road at the Northwest corner of
land
conveyed
to
Allen
B.
Benkalowycz and Bobbie Sue Hiber
by deed recorded in Volume 98-2804,
Page
09
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and the principal point of
beginning of the premises herein
described;
Thence North 18° 38' 00" East
along the Easterly line of Jennings
Road, 382.96 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set;
Thence South 05° 36' 45" East,
304.40 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence South 10° 32' 05" West,
106.46 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
the Northerly line of land so conveyed to aforesaid Allen B. Benkalowycz and Bobbie Sue Hiber;
Thence North 71° 22' 00" West
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed, 170.00 feet to the principal point of beginning and containing 0.7189 acres of land as
described and surveyed by Edward
B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747 of North
Coast Engineering and Surveying
Co., Inc. in July, 2001, be the same,
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Note: All 5/8" iron pins set and
capped, E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747
Parcels 1237 WL and 1238 WL
Portion of Permanent Parcel No.
009-30-046
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 40 and 41 in the Plymouth Development Incorporated,
Valley View Subdivision as shown
by the recorded Plat in Volume 178,
Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records and part of Sublot No. 105

1709

53
in Paris Development Corporation
Valley View Subdivision No.2 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 184, Page 44 of Cuyahoga County Map Records and being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
82,
and
further
bounded
and
described as follows;
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin set
on the Easterly line of West 11th
Street (50.00 feet wide) at the Northwest corner of land conveyed to
Richard L. and Lori A. Calabreese
by deed recorded in Volume 89-6088,
Page
54
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records at the Southwesterly corner
of said Sublot No. 105;
Thence along the curved Easterly
line of West 11th Street deflecting
to the left, an arc of 115.08 feet, said
curve having a radius of 365.00 feet
and a chord that bears North 13° 42'
04" West, 114.59 to a 5/8" iron pin
set;
Thence North 51° 01' 41" East,
32.06 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence South 37° 41' 57" East,
165.58 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
the Northerly line of land so conveyed to aforesaid Calabreese and
the Southerly line of Sublot No. 105;
Thence South 89° 43' 17" West
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed and the Southerly line of
Sublot No. 105, 99.01 feet to the Easterly line of West 11th Street and the
point of beginning and containing
0.1797 acres of land as described and
surveyed by E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No.
6747 of North Coast Engineering and
Surveying Co., Inc. in July 2001 be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Note: All 5/8" iron pins set and
capped with E.B. Dudley P.L.S. No.
6747.
Parcels 1206 WL
Portion of Permanent Parcel No.
009-32-010
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
25 and part of Sublot 32 in South
Hills Estates, of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 81, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 169, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County
Map
Records
and
further
described as follows;
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin found
(0.07 feet North) on the curved culde-sac of West 10th Place, 50 feet
wide, at the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot No. 25;
Thence North 77° 11' 26" East
along the Northerly line of Sublot
No. 25, 90.89 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set at the Northeasterly corner
thereof;
Thence South 42° 08' 20" East
along an Easterly line of Sublot No:
25, 32.33 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
at an Easterly corner thereof;
Thence North 89° 30' 42" East
along the Northerly line of Sublot
No. 32, 26.12 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set;
Thence South 19° 17' 25" West,
95.66 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
a Southerly line of Sublot 32;
Thence South 89° 30' 42" West
along a Southerly line of Sublot No.
32, 26.12 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
at a Southwesterly corner thereof;
Thence North 19° 17' 25" East
along a Westerly line of Sublot No.
32, 21.63 feet to a 1 “ iron pin found

54
(0.12 feet North and 0.06 feet West)
at the Southwest corner thereof;
Thence North 65° 03' 24" West
along the Southerly line of Sublot
No. 25, 98.47 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
found (0.03 feet North and 0.07 feet
West) at the curved cul-de-sac of
West 10th Place;
Thence along the curved cul-desac of West 10th Place deflecting to
the left, an arc of 32.95 feet, said
curve having a radius of 50.00 feet
and a chord that bears North 6° 04'
01" East, 32.35 feet to the point of
beginning and containing 0.2062
acres of land as described and surveyed by Edward B. Dudley, P. L.S.
No. 6747 of North Coast Engineering
and Surveying Co., Inc. in July, 2001,
be the same, more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Note: AI/5/8" iron pins set and
capped, E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747.
Parcels 2523 WL
Portion of Permanent Parcel No.
010-27-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and being part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 79, and
further described as follows;
Beginning at a 1" iron pin monument found in the centerline of
Schaaf Road, 50 feet wide, at an
angle point at Station 22+97.95 (Ohio
Department of Transportation);
Thence North 60° 37' 53" West
along the centerline of Schaaf Road,
44.92 feet to a point at Station
22+53.03;
Thence North 29° 33' 07" East,
25.00 feet to a point on the Northeasterly line of Schaaf Road at its
intersection with the northwest line
of
land
conveyed
to
Kevin
J.
McCabe by deed recorded in Volume
91-7220, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County
Records, said point being the principal point of beginning for the parcel herein described;
Thence North 60° 37' 53" West
along the Northeasterly line of
Schaaf Road, 67.50 feet to a 5/8"
iron pin set;
Thence North 29° 33' 07" East,
18.88 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence North 60° 49' 08" West, 9.46
feet to a 5/8" iron pin set; Thence
North 22° 10' 23" East, 20.32 feet to
a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence North 12° 25' 01" East,
134.84 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
the Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Charter One Bank by deed
recorded in Volume 96-12062, Page 24
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence South 60° 37' 53" East
along the Southeasterly line of land
so conveyed, 119.30 feet to a 5/8"
iron pin set at the northeast corner
of land conveyed to aforesaid Kevin
J. McCabe;
Thence South 29° 33' 07" West
along the Southwesterly line of land
so conveyed, 168.00 feet to the principal point of beginning and containing 0.3599 acres of land as
described and surveyed by Edward
B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747 of North
Coast Engineering and Surveying
Co., Inc. in July, 2001, be the same,
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Note: All 5/8" iron pins set and
capped, E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No.
6747.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire and to convey
these properties and to employ and
pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental audits, and all other costs
necessary for the acquisition of
these properties.
Section 3. That all costs of acquisition of properties shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 4. That this Council finds
that the acquisition and conveyance
of the property to the adjacent
homeowners for redevelopment constitutes a public purpose.
Section 5. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
following property described below
to Gregory T. Czandel, at a price not
less than fair market value of the
property taking into account all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances placed by
the City of Cleveland in the deed or
deeds of conveyance:
Parcels 1206 WL
Portion of Permanent Parcel No.
009-32-010
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
25 and part of Sublot 32 in South
Hills Estates, of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 81, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 169, Page 14 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records and further
described as follows;
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin found
(0.07 feet North) on the curved culde-sac of West 10th Place, 50 feet
wide, at the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot No. 25;
Thence North 77° 11' 26" East
along the Northerly line of Sublot
No. 25, 90.89 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set at the Northeasterly corner
thereof;
Thence South 42° 08' 20" East
along an Easterly line of Sublot No:
25, 32.33 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
at an Easterly corner thereof;
Thence North 89° 30' 42" East
along the Northerly line of Sublot
No. 32, 26.12 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set;
Thence South 19° 17' 25" West,
95.66 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
a Southerly line of Sublot 32;
Thence South 89° 30' 42" West
along a Southerly line of Sublot No.
32, 26.12 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
at a Southwesterly corner thereof;
Thence North 19° 17' 25" East
along a Westerly line of Sublot No.
32, 21.63 feet to a 1" iron pin found
(0.12 feet North and 0.06 feet West)
at the Southwest corner thereof;
Thence North 65° 03' 24" West
along the Southerly line of Sublot
No. 25, 98.47 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
found (0.03 feet North and 0.07 feet
West) at the curved cul-de-sac of
West 10th Place;
Thence along the curved cul-desac of West 10th Place deflecting to
the left, an arc of 32.95 feet, said
curve having a radius of 50.00 feet
and a chord that bears North 6° 04'
01" East, 32.35 feet to the point of

1710

July 23, 2003
beginning and containing 0.2062
acres of land as described and surveyed by Edward B. Dudley, P. L.S.
No. 6747 of North Coast Engineering
and Surveying Co., Inc. in July, 2001,
be the same, more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Note: AI/5/8" iron pins set and
capped, E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747.
Section 6. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
following property described below
to James S. Higgins and Paulette C.
Higgins, at a price not less than fair
market value of the property taking
into account all restrictions, reversionary interests and similar encumbrances placed by the City of Cleveland in the deed or deeds of conveyance:
Parcels 2523 WL
Portion of Permanent Parcel No.
010-27-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and being part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 79, and
further described as follows;
Beginning at a 1" iron pin monument found in the centerline of
Schaaf Road, 50 feet wide, at an
angle point at Station 22+97.95
(Ohio Department of Transportation);
Thence North 60° 37' 53" West
along the centerline of Schaaf Road,
44.92 feet to a point at Station
22+53.03;
Thence North 29° 33' 07" East,
25.00 feet to a point on the Northeasterly line of Schaaf Road at its
intersection with the northwest line
of
land
conveyed
to
Kevin
J.
McCabe by deed recorded in Volume
91-7220, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County
Records, said point being the principal point of beginning for the parcel herein described;
Thence North 60° 37' 53" West
along the Northeasterly line of
Schaaf Road, 67.50 feet to a 5/8"
iron pin set;
Thence North 29° 33' 07" East,
18.88 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence North 60° 49' 08" West, 9.46
feet to a 5/8" iron pin set; Thence
North 22° 10' 23" East, 20.32 feet to
a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence North 12° 25' 01" East,
134.84 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
the Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Charter One Bank by deed
recorded in Volume 96-12062, Page 24
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence South 60° 37' 53" East
along the Southeasterly line of land
so conveyed, 119.30 feet to a 5/8"
iron pin set at the northeast corner
of land conveyed to aforesaid Kevin
J. McCabe;
Thence South 29° 33' 07" West
along the Southwesterly line of land
so conveyed, 168.00 feet to the principal point of beginning and containing 0.3599 acres of land as
described and surveyed by Edward
B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747 of North
Coast Engineering and Surveying
Co., Inc. in July, 2001, be the same,
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Note: All 5/8" iron pins set and
capped, E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No.
6747.

July 23, 2003
Section 7. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
following property described below
to Mary Masters, at a price not less
than fair market value of the property taking into account all restrictions, reversionary interests and
similar encumbrances placed by the
City of Cleveland in the deed or
deeds of conveyance:
Parcels 1237 WL and 1238 WL
Portion of Permanent Parcel No.
009-30-046
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 40 and 41 in the Plymouth Development Incorporated,
Valley View Subdivision as shown
by the recorded Plat in Volume 178,
Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records and part of Sublot No. 105
in Paris Development Corporation
Valley View Subdivision No. 2 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 184, Page 44 of Cuyahoga County Map Records and being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
82,
and
further
bounded
and
described as follows;
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin set
on the Easterly line of West 11th
Street (50.00 feet wide) at the Northwest corner of land conveyed to
Richard L. and Lori A. Calabreese
by deed recorded in Volume 89-6088,
Page
54
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records at the Southwesterly corner
of said Sublot No. 105;
Thence along the curved Easterly
line of West 11th Street deflecting to
the left, an arc of 115.08 feet, said
curve having a radius of 365.00 feet
and a chord that bears North 13° 42'
04" West, 114.59 to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence North 51° 01' 41" East,
32.06 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence South 37° 41' 57" East,
165.58 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
the Northerly line of land so conveyed to aforesaid Calabreese and
the Southerly line of Sublot No. 105;
Thence South 89° 43' 17" West
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed and the Southerly line of
Sublot No. 105, 99.01 feet to the Easterly line of West 11th Street and the
point of beginning and containing
0.1797 acres of land as described and
surveyed by E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No.
6747 of North Coast Engineering and
Surveying Co., Inc. in July 2001 be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Note: All 5/8" iron pins set and
capped with E.B. Dudley P.L.S. No.
6747.
Section 8. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
following property described below
to Ronald W. Hangauer, at a price
not less than fair market value of
the property taking into account all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances placed by
the City of Cleveland in the deed or
deeds of conveyance:
Parcels 1160 WL, 1159 WL, 1158
WL, 1157 WL and 1156 WL
Portions of Permanent Parcel Nos.
009-36-006, 009-36-007, 009-36-008, 00925-011, 009-25-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of

The City Record
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
81
and
further
bounded
and
described as follows;
Beginning at a 1" iron pin monument found on the centerline of Jennings Road, 60 feet wide, said point
being North 18° 38' 00" East, 49.37
feet from the intersection of the centerlines
of
Jennings
Road
and
Spring Road, 60 feet wide;
Thence North 18° 38' 00" East
along the centerline of Jennings
Road, 496.40 feet to a point;
Thence South 71° 22' 00" East,
30.00 feet to a 3/4" iron pipe found
(0.64 feet south and 0.17 feet east)
on the Easterly line of Jennings
Road at the Northwest corner of
land
conveyed
to
Allen
B.
Benkalowycz and Bobbie Sue Hiber
by deed recorded in Volume 98-2804,
Page
09
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and the principal point of
beginning of the premises herein
described;
Thence North 18° 38' 00" East
along the Easterly line of Jennings
Road, 382.96 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set;
Thence South 05° 36' 45" East,
304.40 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence South 10° 32' 05" West,
106.46 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
the Northerly line of land so conveyed to aforesaid Allen B. Benkalowycz and Bobbie Sue Hiber;
Thence North 71° 22' 00" West
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed, 170.00 feet to the principal point of beginning and containing 0.7189 acres of land as
described and surveyed by Edward
B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747 of North
Coast Engineering and Surveying
Co., Inc. in July, 2001, be the same,
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Note: All 5/8" iron pins set and
capped, E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No.
6747.
Section 9. That the conveyances
shall be made by official deed or
deeds to be prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed or deeds shall
contain such necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require
and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any
advertising
signs
or
billboards
except
permitted
identification
signs.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

1711

55
Ord. No. 1241-03.
By Council Member Scott (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the Clean Ohio Assistance Fund, for a Clean Ohio Assessment Grant for a Phase II environmental assessment on property formerly known as the White Motors
facility located at East 79th Street
and St. Clair Avenue; and authorizing the director to enter into contracts with East 79th Street Retail
Associates, LLC/East 79th Street
Associates, LLC to implement the
project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the amount of $340,600,
from the Clean Ohio Assistance
Fund, for a Clean Ohio Assessment
Grant to conduct a Phase II environmental assessment on property
formerly
known
as
the
White
Motors facility located at East 79th
Street and St. Clair Avenue.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the summary
for the grant.
Section 3. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1241-03-A, made a
part as if fully rewritten herein, is
approved in all respects.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
East 79th Street Retail Associates,
LLC/East 79th Street Associates,
LLC to implement the environmental assessment project as described
in the summary.
Section 5. That the contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
only be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain terms and
conditions as the Director deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Section 6. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
the fund or funds that are credited
the proceeds of the grant accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

56
Ord. No. 1242-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development
to
apply
for
and
accept a grant from the Clean Ohio
Assistance Fund, for a Clean Ohio
Assessment Grant for a Phase II
environmental assessment on property formerly known as the National Screw & Manufacturing Company located in the Quincy Business
Park at East 75th Street and Quincy Avenue; and authorizing the
director to enter into contracts
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. to implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the amount of $128,405,
from the Clean Ohio Assistance
Fund, for a Clean Ohio Assessment
Grant to conduct a Phase II environmental assessment on property
formerly known as the National
Screw & Manufacturing Company
located in the Quincy Business Park
at East 75th Street and Quincy
Avenue.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the summary
for the grant.
Section 3. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1242-03-A, made a
part as if fully rewritten herein, is
approved in all respects.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corp. to conduct a Phase II environmental assessment project as
described in the summary.
Section 5.
That the contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain terms and conditions as the Director deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall only be paid
from the fund or funds that are
credited the proceeds of the grant
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1243-03.
By Council Member Rybka (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the Clean Ohio Revitalization Fund, for a Clean Ohio Revitalization Grant for the demolition
of the existing structure and the
remediation on property formerly
known
as
Cleveland
Pneumatic
located at 3781 East 77th Street; and
authorizing the director to enter
into contracts with The General
Investment Funds Real Estate Holding Company to implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the amount of $2,800,000,
from the Clean Ohio Revitalization
Fund, for a Clean Ohio Revitalization Grant to conduct the demolition of the existing structure and
the remediation on property formerly known as Cleveland Pneumatic located at 3781 East 77th
Street.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the summary
for the grant.
Section 3. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1243-03-A, made a
part as if fully rewritten herein, is
approved in all respects.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
The General Investment Funds Real
Estate Holding Company to implement the brownfield remediation
project as described in the summary.
Section 5. That the contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain terms and conditions as the Director deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That the cost of the
contracts authorized shall only be
paid from the fund or funds that
are credited the proceeds of the
grant accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

1712

July 23, 2003
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1244-03.
By Council Member Coats (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the Clean Ohio Assistance Fund, for a Clean Ohio Assessment Grant for a Phase II environmental assessment on property formerly known as the LTV Copperweld site located at 12610 Kirby
Avenue; and authorizing the director to enter into contracts with 12610
Kirby Avenue LLC to implement the
project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the amount of $76,000, from
the Clean Ohio Assistance Fund, for
a Clean Ohio Assessment Grant to
update a Phase II environmental
assessment on property formerly
known as the LTV Copperweld site
located at 12610 Kirby Avenue.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the summary
for the grant.
Section 3. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1244-03-A, made a
part as if fully rewritten herein, is
approved in all respects.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
12610 Kirby Avenue LLC to implement the environmental assessment
project as described in the summary.
Section 5. That the contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain terms and conditions as the Director deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That the cost of the
contracts authorized shall only be
paid from the fund or funds that
are credited the proceeds of the
grant accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1245-03.
By Council Member Britt (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Overlook Ventures, LLC to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the construction
and historic renovation of the former First Church of Christ Scientist
building at 2188 Overlook Road, and
all other associated costs to redevelop the property located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contract with
Overlook Ventures, LLC to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the construction
and historic renovation of the former First Church of Christ Scientist
building at 2188 Overlook Road, and
all other associated costs to redevelop the property located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 1245-03-A.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract shall not exceed Three
Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars
($350,000), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 008, which funds are
appropriated for this purpose, Request No. 103710.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the Summary contained in
the file referenced above in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
security instrument shall be prepared and approved by the Director
of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in an
amount not to exceed the maximum
allowable fees under federal regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in the
preparation of the loan application,
closing and servicing of the loan.
The fees shall be deposited to and
expended from Fund No. 17 SF 305,
Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
contract and other documents that
are appropriate to complete the
transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1246-03.
By Council Member Britt (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into Enterprise
Zone Agreements with Nottingham
Spirk Design Associates, Inc. and
Overlook Ventures, LLC to provide
for ten year seventy-five percent tax
abatements for certain real property improvements and acquisition of
personal property as an incentive to
construct a new facility at 2188
Overlook Road in the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council designated an area which is in
the City of Cleveland and described
in File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone contains the characteristics in Section
5709.61(A) of the Revised Code and
certified the area as an “Urban Jobs
and Enterprise Zone” under Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code; and
Whereas, Nottingham Spirk Design Associates, Inc. has proposed to
relocate its facility to 2188 Overlook
Road in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; and
Whereas, Nottingham Spirk Design Associates, Inc. has certified to
the City it would be at a competitive disadvantage operating at this
location if taxes on certain tangible
personal property and real property
improvements were not abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property, and welfare and that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, and the
assistance is immediately necessary
or jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the application of Nottingham Spirk Design Associates, Inc.
and Overlook Ventures, LLC for
enterprise zone incentives on the
basis that the Nottingham Spirk
Design Associates, Inc. and Overlook Ventures, LLC are qualified by
financial responsibility and business
experience to create and preserve
employment opportunities in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone and
to improve the economic climate of
the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized
to enter into an Enterprise Zone
Agreement with Nottingham Spirk
Design Associates, Inc. and Overlook
Ventures, LLC to provide for a ten

1713

57
year seventy-five percent (75%) tax
abatement on real property improvements and for the acquisition of personal property, as an incentive to
construct and renovate the facility
located at 2188 Overlook Road in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; the
abatement shall be subject to annual review of the Tax Incentive
Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the
both tax abatements shall be in
accordance with the terms in the
Summary contained in File No. 124603-A. These terms shall not be
amended, nor shall the tax abatements be assignable or transferable
to any entity, without the prior legislative authorization by Cleveland
City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
listed in Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve the
agreements and that the agreements
shall contain the terms and provisions the director deems necessary
to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1247-03.
By Council Member Rybka (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Old World Foods, Inc. to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the purchase of
machinery and equipment associated with the relocation of Old World
Foods to 3545 East 76th Street, and
all other associated costs to redevelop the property located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contract with Old
World Foods, Inc. to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the purchase of
machinery and equipment associated with the relocation of Old World
Foods to 3545 East 76th Street, and

58
all other associated costs to redevelop the property located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 1247-03-A.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract shall not exceed Fifty
Thousand
Dollars
($50,000),
and
shall be paid from Fund No. 17 SF
008, which funds are appropriated
for this purpose, Request No. 103705.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the Summary contained in
the file referenced above in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
security instrument shall be prepared and approved by the Director
of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
contract and other documents that
are appropriate to complete the
transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1248-03.
By Council Member Lewis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Cleveland Housing Network to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
environmental,
architectural,
and
engineering studies of real property
formerly known as the Richmond
Brothers building located on East
55th Street, and all other associated
costs to redevelop the property,
located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Cleveland Housing Network to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the
environmental,
architectural,
and engineering studies of real
property formerly known as the
Richmond Brothers building located
on East 55th Street, and all other
associated costs to redevelop the
property, located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of the
grant shall be according to the
terms set forth in the summary contained in File No. 1248-03-A.
Section 3. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed One Hundred
and
Nine
Thousand
Dollars
($109,000), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 652, which funds are
appropriated for this purpose, Request No. 103708.
Section 4. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
grant agreement and other documents that are appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1249-03.
By
Council
Members
Jackson,
Britt, Lewis, Scott and Conwell (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 148-02,
passed January 28, 2002, relating to
a contract with Famicos Foundation
to develop a labor force initiative
program in the Cleveland Empowerment Zone.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 148-02, passed January 28,
2002, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the costs of said
contracts shall not exceed $150,000
and shall be paid from Fund No. 18
SF 008.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 148-02, passed January 28,
2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

1714

July 23, 2003
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1250-03.
By Council Member Jones (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, the third whereas clause,
Section 2, and Section 3 of Ordinance
No. 378-03, passed March 10, 2003,
relating
to
an
Enterprise
Zone
Agreement with Gebauer Company.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title, the third
whereas clause, Section 2, and Section 3 of Ordinance No. 378-03,
passed March 10, 2003, are amended
to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Gebauer Company, to provide for a ten year seventy-five percent tax abatement for
certain tangible personal property
and real property as an incentive to
assist with the company’s development of a new manufacturing and
distribution facility at the Ashland
Oil property located at East 146th
Street and Velma Avenue in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, Gebauer company (the
“Enterprise”) has proposed to develop a new manufacturing and distribution facility at the Ashland Oil
property located at East 146th Street
and Velma Avenue in the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone; and
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a ten year seventyfive percent (75%) tax abatement
for certain tangible personal property and real property as an incentive to assist with the company’s
development of a new manufacturing and distribution facility at the
Ashland Oil property located at East
146th Street and Velma Avenue in
the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone;
the abatement shall be subject to
annual review of the Tax Incentive
Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 378-03-B.
These terms shall not be amended,
nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferable to any
entity without the prior legislative
authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 2. That the title, the third
whereas clause, Section 2, and Section 3 of Ordinance No. 378-03,
passed March 10, 2003, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

July 23, 2003
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1251-03.
By Council Member Britt (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
loan from the Cuyahoga County
Brownfield Redevelopment Fund to
partially finance the acquisition,
construction,
and
environmental
remediation of property located at
2188 Overlook Road; authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
to
purchase
the
property;
authorizing the Director to enter
into a contract with Overlook Ventures, LLC to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the acquisition, construction,
and environmental remediation of
the property located at 2188 Overlook Road and all other associated
costs to redevelop the property; and
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to convey
the property to Overlook Ventures,
LLC.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a loan
from the Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund in an
amount not to exceed $1,000,000 to
partially finance the acquisition,
construction
and
environmental
remediation of property located at
2188 Overlook Road.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a loan agreement
with Cuyahoga County for the loan
described above, which loan agreement shall contain the terms set
forth in File No. 1251-03-A, and shall
contain any additional terms that
the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The Director of Economic Development is further authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the loan agreement,
and the loan funds are appropriated
for the purposes contained in the
loan agreement.
Section 3. That on execution of the
loan agreement, the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
repay the loan funds to the Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund under the terms and conditions of the loan agreement, from
the fund or funds designated for
that purpose and appropriated for
that use.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provi-

The City Record
sions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following described
property located at 2188 Overlook
Road in order to perform the environmental remediation:
2188 and 2200 Overlook Road
Permanent Parcel Nos. 121-07-014,
015, 016 and 017
Parcel No. 1:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, known as being part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Number
Four Hundred and Four (404) and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the Southwesterly
corner of Sublot Number One Hundred and Seventeen in the Euclid
Heights
Allotment
by
John
H.
Brown, et al., of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Numbers 404, 405 etc.,
recorded in Volume 19, Page 2 to 13,
both inclusive, Cuyahoga County
Records of Maps;
Thence North Fifty One degrees
(51°) West, Three Hundred and
Eighty Eight and Seventy Three
Hundredths (388.73) feet;
Thence North Thirty Nine degrees,
nine minutes (39° 9') East, One
Hundred and Forty Two and Thirty
Seven Hundredths (142.37) feet, to
the Southeasterly line of Edge Hill
Road;
Thence Northerly along said line
of Edge Hill Road, One Hundred
and Thirty One and Six Hundredths
(131.06) feet;
Thence South Fifty Two degrees,
Forty Two minutes (52° 42') East,
One Hundred Seventy Eight and
Eighteen Hundredths (178.18) feet,
to the Westerly line of the Overlook
Road;
Thence Southerly along said line
of the Overlook Road, Three Hundred and One and Twenty-Six Hundredths (301.26) feet;
Thence South Seventy Four degrees, Forty One minutes (74° 41')
West, One Hundred and Forty Nine
and
Ninety
Seven
Hundredths
(149.97) feet, to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways, being
the same property conveyed to the
grantor
herein
by
the
Euclid
Heights Company by deed dated
January 25, 1897, recorded in Volume 659, Page 338, Cuyahoga County Records.
Parcel No. 2:
Known as a part of Original Hundred Acre Lot No. 404 now of the
City of Cleveland:
Beginning at a stone at the Northwesterly corner of John Sherwin’s
property which is also the Southwest corner of Nellie E. Hinds’ property;
Thence South 52° 20' East 389 feet
to a stone;
Thence South 82° 21' West, 14028/100 feet to a stone;
Thence North 52° 20' West 29027/100 feet to a stone;
Thence North 37° 55' East 100 feet
to the place of beginning, being a
part of Lot No. 1 of James W. Lee’s
proposed Subdivision, as per survey
made by Geo. Cully, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal

1715

59
highways. Being the property conveyed to the grantor herein by John
Sherwin, by deed dated May 20, 1907,
recorded in Volume 1356, Page 119120 Cuyahoga County Records.
Parcel No. 3:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
404, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Southeasterly
line of Edge Hill Road at the most
Westerly corner of land conveyed to
Louise Pope Johnson, by deed dated
September 24, 1904, and recorded in
Volume 1144, Page 515 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence Southwesterly along said
Southeasterly line of Edge Hill
Road to the most Northerly corner
of land conveyed to Nellie E. Hinds,
by deed dated January 25, 1897, and
recorded in Volume 659, Page 338 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southeasterly along the
Northeasterly line of land so conveyed to Nellie E. Hinds, about 17818/100 feet to the Westerly line of
Overlook Road;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line of Overlook Road, to the
most Southerly corner of land conveyed to Louise Pope Johnson as
aforesaid;
Thence Northwesterly along the
Southwesterly line of land so conveyed to Louise Pope Johnson, about
141-72/100 feet to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Parcel No. 4:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original 100 Acre Lot Number 404,
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Northwesterly
line of Overlook Road, S.E. 60 feet
wide, at its intersection with the
Northwesterly prolongation of the
Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 13
in the Euclid Heights Allotment
recorded in Volume 36 of Maps,
Page
2
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence Northwesterly along the
said Northwesterly prolongation of
the Northeasterly line of said Sublot
No. 13, 113.09 feet to the Southeasterly line of Edgehill Road, S.E., 60
feet wide;
Thence Southwesterly along the
Southeasterly line of Edgehill Road,
S.E., 111.37 feet to its intersection
with the Northwesterly prolongation
of the Southwesterly line of said
Sublot No. 13;
Thence Southeasterly along the
said Northwesterly prolongation of
the Southwesterly line of Sublot No.
13, 141.72 feet to the Northwesterly
line of Overlook Road, S.E.;
Thence Northeasterly along the
Northwesterly
line
of
Overlook
Road, S.E. 105.42 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Parcel No.
Situated
County of
Ohio, and

5
in the City of Cleveland,
Cuyahoga and State of
known as being part of

60
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
404 and bounded and described as
follows:
Commencing at a point on the
Northwesterly line of Overlook Road
determined by projecting Northwesterly, the Southwesterly line of land
conveyed to Mary L. Johnson by
deed dated March 30, 1898, and
recorded in Volume 705, Page 290 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Northwesterly on said projected line to Edgehill Road, being
a distance of 88.09 feet;
Thence Southwesterly along the
Southwesterly line of Edgehill Road
a distance of 143.30 feet;
Thence Southeasterly on a line
which is a projection Northwesterly
of the Northeasterly line of land conveyed to Louise Pope Johnson by
deed dated August 7, 1903, and
recorded in Volume 1566, Page 576
of Cuyahoga County Records, to the
Northwesterly
line
of
Overlook
Road, being a distance of 113.09 feet;
Thence Northeasterly along the
Northwesterly line of Overlook Road
a distance of 129.59 feet back to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Parcel No. 6:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
404 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Southeasterly
line of Edgehill Road, S.E., at the
most Northerly corner of land conveyed to Gertrude Rust Chandler by
Deed dated June 12, 1907, and
recorded in Volume 1134, Page 68 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Northeasterly along said
Southeasterly line of Edgehill Road
S.E., 112-23/100 feet to the most
Westerly corner of land conveyed to
The Land and Fund Company by
deed dated May 26, 1915, and recorded in Volume 1699, Page 80 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southeasterly along the
Southwesterly line of land so conveyed to The Land and Fund Company, 70-79/100 feet to the Northwesterly line of Overlook Road S.E.;
Thence Southwesterly along said
Northwesterly line of Overlook Road
S.E., 104-66/100 feet to the Northeasterly line of land conveyed to
Gertrude Rust Chandler, as aforesaid;
Thence Northwesterly along the
Northeasterly line of land conveyed
to Gertrude Rust Chandler, as aforesaid, 88-09/100 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a loan agreement
with Overlook Ventures, LLC to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition, construction, and environmental remediation of the property
located at 2188 Overlook Road, and
all other associated costs to redevelop the property located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 6. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms

The City Record
set forth in the summary contained
file referenced above.
Section 7. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the summary contained in
the file referenced above in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
security instrument shall be prepared and approved by the Director
of Law.
Section 8. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 9. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 10. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
loan agreement and other documents that are appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 11. That the Director of
Economic Development may enter
into and execute a project agreement for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Overlook Ventures LLC, for the acquisition, disposition and private redevelopment
for the property described above.
Section 12. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
property described above to Overlook Ventures, LLC at a price to be
determined by the Board of Control,
taking into account all restrictions,
reversionary interests and similar
encumbrances placed by the City of
Cleveland
in
the
deed
of
conveyance.
Section 13. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain such necessary provisions,
including
any
restrictive
reversionary interests as may be
specified by the Board of Control or
Director of Law, which shall protect
the parties as their respective interests require and shall specifically
contain a provision against the erection of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 14. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized
to execute on behalf of the City of
Cleveland all necessary documents
and agreements to acquire, remediate, and convey the property and to
employ and pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers,
environmental audits and environmental remediation, and all other
costs necessary for the acquisition
and remediation of the property.
Section 15. That the costs for the
loan to Overlook Ventures, LLC,
acquisition, construction, and environmental
property
remediation
shall be paid from the fund or funds

1716

July 23, 2003
which are credited the proceeds of
the Cuyahoga County Brownfield
Redevelopment Fund loan accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 16. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1252-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 171.62 and 171.621 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1395-02, passed July 17, 2002,
relating to benefits for part-time
employees of City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 171.62 and
171.621 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1395-02, passed
July 17, 2002, are hereby amended to
read, respectively, as follows:
Section 171.62 Benefits for Executive Assistants – Council Members
(a) All Executive Assistants for
Council Members who are chosen by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
pursuant to Section 31 of the Charter of the City and are employed
part-time shall be entitled to the
benefits described in Sections 171.32,
171.33 and 171.60 of these Codified
Ordinances.
(b) All Executive Assistants for
Council Members who are chosen by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
pursuant to Section 31 of the Charter of the City and are employed
part-time shall be entitled to the
benefits described in Sections 171.28,
171.30 (b) and 171.31 of these Codified Ordinances at the rate of eighty
percent (80%) of the benefit provided to full-time employees in each
of these Sections of the Codified
Ordinances.
(c) All Executive Assistants for
Council Members who are chosen by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
pursuant to Section 31 of the Charter of the City and are employed
part-time may be entitled to the benefit described in Section 171.30 (a).
(d) For purposes of this section,
a “part-time employee” is one who
works a minimum of thirty-two (32)
hours per week and less than forty
(40) hours per week.
Section 171.621 Benefits for Council Employees
(a) All Council Employees who
are chosen by the Council of the

July 23, 2003
City pursuant to Section 31 of the
Charter of the City and who are
employed part-time shall be entitled
to the benefits described in Sections
171.32, 171.33 and 171.60 of these Codified Ordinances.
(b) All Council Employees who
are chosen by the Council of the
City pursuant to Section 31 of the
Charter of the City and who are
employed part-time shall be entitled
to the benefits described in Sections
171.28, 171.30 (b) and 171.31 of these
Codified Ordinances at the rate of
eighty percent (80%) of the benefit
provided to full-time employees in
each of these Sections of the Codified Ordinances.
(c) All Council Employees who
are chosen by the Council of the
City pursuant to Section 31 of the
Charter of the City and who are
employed part-time may be entitled
to the benefit described in Section
171.30 (a).
(d) For purposes of this section,
a “part-time employee” is one who
works a minimum of thirty-two (32)
hours per week and less than forty
(40) hours per week.
Section 2. That existing Sections
171.62 and 171.621 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 139502, passed July 17, 2002, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1253-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into contract with City Architecture
for professional services necessary
to design improvements to Council
Member
offices
and
to
design
improvements to the HVAC system
in City Council offices.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to enter into
contract with City Architecture for
professional services necessary to
design
improvements
to
Council
Member offices and to design improvements to the HVAC system in
City Council offices on the basis of
City Architecture’s proposal dated
June 9, 2003.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $15,000 and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 01 SF
001, 11 SF 006, and Fund Nos. 20 and
21.

The City Record
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1254-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase a site
located at 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
for municipal use.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to purchase the following
described property located at 205
W. St. Clair Avenue for municipal
use:
P. P. No. 101-07-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lots 58 and 59,
and part of Broome Court N.W. (now
vacated),
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the centerline of St. Clair Avenue N.W., 99
feet wide, at its intersection with
the centerline of West 3rd Street
(formerly Seneca Street), 99 feet
wide, and from which point an iron
monument found in the centerline of
West 3rd Street bears South 34
degrees 03 minutes 42 seconds East,
0.10 feet;
Thence North 55 degrees 56 minutes 37 seconds East along the centerline of St. Clair Avenue, 355.58
feet to a nail set at its intersection
with the centerline of West 2nd
Place (formerly Court Place), 16.5
feet wide and variable;
Thence South 34 degrees 03 minutes 04 seconds East along the centerline of West 2nd Place, 49.50
feet to its intersection with the
southeasterly line of St. Clair Avenue;
Thence South 55 degrees 56 minutes 37 seconds West along the
southeasterly line of St. Clair Avenue, 8.25 feet to its intersection with
the southwesterly line of West 2nd
Place, and the principal place of
beginning
of
the
parcel
herein
described, and from which point a
drill hole set bears North 34 degrees
03 minutes 04 seconds West, 1.00
foot;

1717

61
Thence South 34 degrees 03 minutes 04 seconds East along the,
southwesterly line of West 2nd
Place, 173.59 feet to a nail set at its
intersection with the centerline of
vacated Broome Court;
Thence South 55 degrees 53 minutes 12 seconds West along the center line of vacated Broome Court
and along a northwesterly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to 55 Public LLC by deed recorded as A.F.N.
199908041003 of Cuyahoga County
Records, 147.80 feet to its intersection with a northeasterly line of
said land so conveyed;
Thence North 34 degrees 03 minutes 23 seconds West along said
northeasterly line of said land conveyed to 55 Public LLC, 173.74 feet
to a drill hole set at its intersection
with the southeasterly line of St.
Clair Avenue;
Thence North 55 degrees 56 minutes 37 seconds East along the
southeasterly
line
of
St.
Clair
Avenue, 147.82 feet to the principal
place of beginning and containing
25,670 square feet or 0.5893 acres of
land according to the survey by
Donald G. Bohning & Associates,
Inc. last dated October 2000.
The courses used in this description are referenced to an assumed
meridian and are used to indicate
angles only.
An easement appurtenant to the
fee parcel for the establishment of
a common driveway and passageway
and
for
the
uninterrupted
access, transmission and enjoyment
of light, air and unobstructed view
as set forth in the easement filed for
record January 30, 1956 in Volume
8490, Page 385 of Cuyahoga County
Records and described as follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lots 58 and 59,
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the
southwesterly line of West 2nd
Place, 16.5 feet wide, at its intersection with the northwesterly line
of Broome Court N.W., 16.5 feet
wide, (now vacated); Thence South
34 degrees 03 minutes 04 seconds
East along the southwesterly line of
West 2nd Place, 8.25 feet to its intersection
with
the
centerline
of
Broome Court, now vacated;
Thence South 55 degrees 53 minutes 12 seconds West along the centerline of Broome Court, now vacated, 147.80 feet to its intersection
with the southwesterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to First Union
Real Estate Equity and Mortgage
Investments by deed recorded in
Volume 98-01915, Page 30 of the Official Records of Cuyahoga County;
Thence North 34 degrees 03 minutes 23 seconds West along the
southwesterly line of said land conveyed to First Union Real Estate
Equity and Mortgage Investments,
8.25 feet to its intersection with the
northwesterly line of Broome Court,
now vacated;
Thence North 55 degrees 53 minutes 12 seconds East along the
northwesterly line of Broome Court,
now vacated, 147.81 feet to the
place of beginning according to the

The City Record

62
survey by Donald G. Bohning &
Associates, Inc., dated November,
1994, and updated through May 27,
1999.
The courses used in this description are referenced to an assumed
meridian and are used to indicate
angles only.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to execute on
behalf of the City of Cleveland all
necessary documents to acquire the
property and to employ and pay all
fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits, and all other costs neces-

July 23, 2003

sary for the acquisition of the property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for the property shall not
exceed its fair market value.
Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of the property shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 300, 20 SF 310,
20 SF 381, 20 SF 371, 20 SF 362, 20
SF 351, 20 SF 340, 20 SF 331, 20 SF
320 and the proceeds from the sale
of 2003 general obligation bonds
issued for this purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency mea-

sure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1255-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 986-03, passed June 10, 2003, relating to moral
claims.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 986-03, passed June 10, 2003, is amended to read as follows:

Claimant

Claim No.

Amount

Division

Fund

Patricia Cangelosi-Williams

11165

$4,318.10

Park Maintenance

01-701205-672000

William C. Beverly, III

11307

212.93

Park Maintenance

01-701205-672000

Mary Hughey

11410

25.00

Park Maintenance

01-020100-672000

Hattie M. Brown

11472

790.00

Park Maintenance

01-701205-672000

Karl F. Morris

11512

28.00

Park Maintenance

01-701205-672000

Brenda Glass

11474

140.00

Park Maintenance

62 SF 001

(Cemeteries)
Ethel Minters

11485

3,725.00

Park Maintenance

62 SF 001

(Cemeteries)
Ronald Perrott

11491

475.00

Park Maintenance

David Henderson

11507

2,086.50

Earlene E. McCurdy

11569

582.17

Park Maintenance

Rubin Jones

11365

495.00

Park Maintenance

Eunous Spencer

11466

250.00

Park Maintenance

Gary A. Jones

11475

250.00

Park Maintenance

Lovie Finch

11479

3,518.00

Anna Farley

11499

500.00

Janice Oliver

11570

500.00

62 SF 001

(Cemeteries)
Park Maintenance

62 SF 001

(Cemeteries)
62 SF 001

(Cemeteries)
01-701204-672000

(Urban Forestry)
01-701204-672000

(Urban Forestry)
01-701204-672000

(Urban Forestry)
Park Maintenance

01-701204-672000

(Urban Forestry)
Park Maintenance

01-701204-672000

(Urban Forestry)
Park Maintenance
(Urban Forestry)

1718

01-701204-672000

The City Record

July 23, 2003
Kathy Thomas

11227

269.00

63
Municipal Clerk

01-011601-672000

of Courts
Michael Dean-El

11437

500.00

Fire

01-600302-672000

Scott Plate

11529

500.00

Fire

01-600302-672000

Curtis Love

11534

312.73

Fire

01-600302-672000

Myrtell Turner

11538

300.00

Fire

01-600302-672000

Shelia Jenkin

11190

100.00

Police

01-600202-672000
01-600202-672000

Lawrence Piorkowski

11404

528.90

Police

Ray Lipford

11463

80.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Clara Gathright

11473

164.00

Police

01-600202-672000

William Hester

11478

250.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Alverta McRae

11500

163.50

Police

01-600202-672000

Terron Owens

11540

35.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Tim Hruby

11541

1,600.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Theresa Reed

11470

40.00

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Julia M. Asberry

11501

21.99

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Kenya R. Gray

11504

20.30

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Peter Pyros

11528

31.26

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Elizabeth Daniels-Horton

11530

20.00

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Ella M. Smedley

11559

21.99

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Debra A. Mason

11400

659.95

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Kevin Thomas

11419

1,000.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

James G. McPhillips

11446

1,475.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Darnell Parker

11456

2,000.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

John Sygula

11464

315.56

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Mark Wolf

11487

2,000.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Michael J. Nugent

11502

500.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Alan Beno

11503

37.67

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Paulette M. Baglyos

11510

157.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Patricia A. Larson

11515

327.71

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Edith Hopkins

11522

753.10

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Larry Martin

11524

1,500.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Frank D. McGuire

11525

2,000.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Dan Zemnik

11526

439.24

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Reggie Hughes

11532

1,600.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Steve Lenart

11539

640.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Stephanie Calloway

11551

1,870.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Sandra M. Robinson

11555

2,000.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Michelle Gacom

11556

500.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Antonio Tomasi

11560

2,000.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Section 2. That existing Section 1 of Ordinance No. 986-03, passed June 10, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage
and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

1719

64
Ord. No. 1256-03.
By Council Member Coats (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to authorize registration with the Midwest
Independent Transmission System
Operator, Inc. for the purpose of purchasing various transmission services, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities.
Whereas, the Division of Cleveland Public Power requires access
over
the
transmission
lines
of
neighboring utilities to import its
power purchases from various power
suppliers, and
Whereas, federal law has required
various neighboring utilities to combine their systems to form regional
transmission organizations, including
the
Midwest
Independent
Transmission System Operator, Inc.
(MISO), and
Whereas, the Division of Cleveland Public Power is required to
register with MISO to continue
receiving transmission across the
systems of neighboring utilities, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into an agreement or agreements,
and
any
amendments
approved by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, with the
Midwest Independent Transmission
System Operator, Inc. (MISO) to register the Division of Cleveland Public Power as a MISO Market Participant and to authorize the Director,
or his designees, to purchase from
MISO
various
transmission
and
other services that are necessary to
enable Cleveland Public Power to
receive and transmit power between
Cleveland Public Power and its suppliers.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance shall make electronic fund
transfers as needed according to
MISO’s requirements.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

The City Record
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1257-03.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of equipment,
furniture and computer software
and
hardware;
authorizing
the
Director of Public Service to acquire
one or more software licenses for
fleet management, for the various
divisions of the Department of Public Service; and authorizing the
Director to employ one or more
firms or consultants, computer software developers, or vendors necessary to install and implement the
system and to provide training, technical support, and maintenance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year of the necessary items of various types of equipment, supplies, furniture, and computer hardware and software, in the
estimated sum of $472,795, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than one year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.

July 23, 2003
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
acquire by contract or contracts
with one or more consultants, computer software developers, or vendors or one or more firms of consultants, computer software developers, or vendors for the purpose of
supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland to
acquire one or more licenses for
fleet management software, including implementation, training, technical support services and maintenance, for a period of one year, for
the Department of Public Service.
The selection of the consultants,
software developers, or vendors for
the licenses and services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Public
Service from lists of qualified consultants, software developers, or
vendors available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Service for the purpose
of compiling the lists. The contract
or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Service and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against Fund No. 11 SF 006
and the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase,
which
purchase,
together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 112520)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1258-03.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to make alterations and modifications in
Contract No. 56954 for improvements to the Justice Center garage and plaza with Panzica Construction Co., for
the Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to make the following alterations and modifications
in Contract No. 56954 with Panzica Construction Co. for improvements to the Justice Center garage and plaza,
for the Department of Public Service:
ADDITIONS
Scope of Work:
1. Demo existing pavers and prep site for new security booth. Re-set pavers around security booth after installation.
2. Provide material and labor to install 6’ x 8’ security booth per attached plans and specifications.
3. Provide material and labor to install granite around bottom 3’ of security booth to match adjacent granite
planters.
4. Core concrete structural deck and tie in downspout into existing sanitary line on P-1 level.
5. Provide material and labor to install all electrical and security systems as detailed in Bulletin #5 issued
July 18, 2001 by Osborn Engineering. Cord reels and receptacles per value engineering proposal.
6. Repairs to insulation at P-1 ceiling.
7. Paint new conduit.

1720

The City Record

July 23, 2003

65

Description
Security Booth
Granite for pavers and security booth, caulking
Bulletin #5 – Item #1
Bulletin #5 – Item #2
Downspout Tie-in
Repairs to Spray Insulation
Touch-up Paint
Contingency Work
Supervision
Profit
Overhead
Subsidiary Additions
Original Contract Amount
Subsidiary Additions
REVISED CONTRACT AMOUNT

$ 17,720.00
$ 10,000.00
$ 63,375.00
$ 41,855.00
$ 1,000.00
$ 5,000.00
$ 2,500.00
$ 20,000.00
$ 3,000.00
$ 11,650.00
$ 13,320.00
$194,420.00

$7,270,000.00
+ 194,420.00
$7,464,420.00

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director of Public Service, countersigned by the Mayor,
and consented to by the surety on the contract, which price to be paid has been agreed on in writing and signed
by the Director of Public Service and the Contractor. This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the
original contract in the sum of $194,420.00, payable from Fund No. 01-600200-693000.
Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1259-03.
By Council Member Coats (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
employ one or more professional
consultants to design the rehabilitation and renovation of the Collinwood Community Center; determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the improvement; and authorizing
the director to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to design the rehabilitation and renovation of the
Collinwood Community Center (the
“Improvement”).
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Service for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Service, and certified by the
Director of Finance.

Section 2. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement described in
Section 1 of this ordinance by one
or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the Improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each,
or any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
On request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit
and overhead, for all items constituting units of the improvement.
Section 4. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 300, 20 SF 310, 20
SF 320, 20 SF 331, 20 SF 340, 20 SF
351, 20 SF 362, 20 SF 371, 20 SF 381,
and from the fund or funds which
are credited the proceeds of the sale
of 2003 public facility bonds which
are authorized for this purpose,
Request No. 131063.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

1721

The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1260-03.
By Council Member Reed (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1105-02,
passed June 17, 2002, relating to the
Director of Public Safety enter into
a direct contract with the Cuyahoga
Regional Information System for
law enforcement services relating to
the implementation of a mobile data
computer pilot project in the fourth
district.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1105-02, passed June 17,
2002, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 13 SF 934 and
13 SF 960, Request No. 131606.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 1105-02, passed
June 17, 2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

66
Ord. No. 1261-03.
By Council Member Reed (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Sagem Morpho, Inc. for the purchase
of maintenance for AFIS software
and hardware, for the Department of
Public Safety, for a period of one
year, with two one-year options to
renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council has
determined that the within commodities are non-competitive and
cannot be secured from any source
other than Sagem Morpho, Inc.
Therefore the Director of Public
Safety is authorized to make one or
more written contracts with Sagem
Morpho, Inc. on the basis of its proposal dated March 19, 2003 for maintenance for AFIS software and
hardware, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for a gross price, for the
Department of Public Safety, to
renew for additional one-year terms,
and cancelable on thirty days written notice by the director.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 11 SF 006,
Request No. 112685.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1262-03.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 6a of
Ordinance No. 725-02, passed August
14, 2002, relating to the creation of
a pilot program for the public
improvement to repair and replace
unsafe or dangerous sidewalks.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 6a of Ordinance No. 72502, passed August 14, 2002, are
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
create a pilot program for the public
improvement
to
repair
and
replace unsafe or dangerous sidewalks from 2002 through 2004.
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to create a pilot program through December 31, 2004 where sidewalks which

The City Record
are designated by the Department of
Public Service as being in an unsafe
or dangerous condition may be
repaired after receipt by the City of
voluntary payment of fifty percent
(50%) of the estimated shared costs
of repair. Shared costs shall include,
but not be limited to, any cost
incurred by the City or its contractor, such as the cost of paving or
repairing, adjustment of castings,
reseeding lawns, or grinding tree
roots, except that shared costs shall
not include costs incurred in removing a full tree.
Section 6a. That this pilot program shall terminate on December
31, 2004, except that any work for
which
shared
costs
have
been
received from a resident prior to the
termination date remaining unperformed on the termination date shall
be performed during the next calendar year.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 6a of Ordinance
No. 725-02, passed August 14, 2002,
are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1263-03.
By Council Member Gordon (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to apply to the District One Public Works Integrating
Committee for state funding for the
Treadway Creek Greenway Restoration Project; authorizing the Mayor
to accept a grant from the Ohio Public Works Commission for the project; authorizing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
employ one or more professional
consultants to design the construction of a trail path connector from
tow path trail to Harmody Park;
determining the method of making
the public improvement of the construction; authorizing the director to
enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire for
public purposes real property that is
necessary to implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is
authorized to apply to the District
One Public Works Integrating Committee for state funding of the
infrastructure capital improvement
known as the Treadway Creek
Greenway Restoration Project.
Section 2. That the Mayor is authorized to accept a grant in the amount
of $745,316, from the Ohio Public
Works Commission, acting by and

1722

July 23, 2003
through its Director, to finance the
capital improvement of implementing
the
Treadway
Creek
Greenway
Restoration Project; that the Mayor
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
application for the grant.
Section 3. That the application for
the grant, File No. 1263-03-A made a
part as if fully rewritten, including
the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds
in the approximate sum of $60,000,
from Fund No. 10 SF 166 and to
accept $10,000 from the Ohio & Erie
Canal
Association
to
be
used
towards implementing the project, is
approved in all respects.
Section 4. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
design the construction of a trail
path connector from tow path trail
to Harmody Park (the “Improvement”).
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 5. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement described in
Section 1 of this ordinance by one
or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the Improvement.
Section 6. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
Improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 7. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire for public purposes such real
property as described in the application which is necessary to implement
the Project. The consideration to be
paid for such properties shall not
exceed its appraised value.
Section 8. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to execute on behalf of

July 23, 2003
the City all documents necessary to
acquire such property and to employ
and pay all fees for title companies,
surveys, escrows, appraiser, and all
other costs necessary for the acquisition
of
property
necessary
to
implement the Project.
Section 9. That the costs of the
property acquisition, the public improvement contract, and professional services shall be paid from the
fund or funds which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1264-03.
By Council Member Johnson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to employ one
or more professional consultants to
provide for the design of improving
various types of recreation facilities;
determining the method of making
the public improvement of constructing
the
recreation
facility
improvements; authorizing the director to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvements; and authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of furniture,
equipment, and supplies necessary
to make the improvements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
design
improvements
to
various
types of recreation facilities (the
“Improvement”).
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.

The City Record
Section 2. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement described in
this ordinance by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a gross price for
the construction, rehabilitation, renovation, replacement, or otherwise
improving certain City-owned recreation facilities, and including all
site
improvements
and
appurtenances necessary and incidental to
the Improvement, excluding parks
and playgrounds.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
Improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
Improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
On request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit
and overhead, for all items constituting units of the Improvement
Section 4. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement described in
this ordinance by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for
the construction, rehabilitation, renovation, replacement, or otherwise
improving certain City-owned parks
and playgrounds, including all site
improvements
and
appurtenances
necessary and incidental to the
Improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
Improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 6. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to make one or more
written requirement contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for the period of
one year of the necessary items of
furniture, equipment, and supplies
necessary to make the Improvement,
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Divisions of
Recreation and Research, Planning
and Development. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than one year may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.

1723

67
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 11 SF 006, 20 SF 331, 20
SF 340, 20 SF 351, 20 SF 362, 20 SF
371, 20 SF 381, 20 SF 330, 20 SF 343,
20 SF 354, 20 SF 361, 20 SF 370, 20
SF 382, 20 SF 377, and from the proper appropriation accounts and the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 136627)
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1265-03.
By Council Member Johnson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
Lease Agreement with the City of
East Cleveland for park purposes,
for a period not to exceed twenty
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized to enter into a Lease Agreement with the City of East Cleveland for park purposes on property
belonging to the City of Cleveland
but located in the City of East
Cleveland and known as Permanent
Parcel No. 672-02-114. The Lease
Agreement shall be at no cost to the
City of Cleveland. The term shall
commence on the date of execution
of the Agreement and, unless sooner terminated, shall not exceed
twenty years.
Section 2. That the Lease Agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law, and shall contain any
provision necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

The City Record

68
Ord. No. 1266-03.
By Council Members Britt and
Gordon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant Western
Reserve Area Agency for the 2003
Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging — Caregivers Program; and
authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contracts necessary to implement the
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Aging is authorized to apply for and

July 23, 2003

accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $45,000 and any other
funds that may become available
during the grant term, from the
Western Reserve Area Agency to
conduct the 2003 Western Reserve
Area Agency on Aging — Caregivers
Program, that the Director of Aging
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1266-03-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
is
approved
in
all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is autho-

rized to enter into one or more contracts necessary to implement the
program as described in the file.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1267-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 43 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1099-03, passed June 10, 2003, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 43 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1099-03,
passed June 10, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 43. Hourly Rate – Building & Construction Trades Council
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:
Effective
Date
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Asbestos Worker.........................................................................
Boiler Maker.................................................................................
Bricklayer......................................................................................
Bricklayer Foreman...................................................................
Carpenter........................................................................................
Carpenter Foreman.....................................................................
Carpenter Apprentice.................................................................
Cement Finisher..........................................................................
Cement Finisher Foreman.......................................................
Electrical Worker.......................................................................
Electrical Worker Foreman....................................................
Glazier.............................................................................................
Ironworker.....................................................................................
Ironworker Foreman..................................................................
Painter.............................................................................................
Painter – Apprentice.................................................................
Painter Foreman.........................................................................
Pipefitter (Welder)....................................................................
Pipefitter Foreman.....................................................................
Plasterer.........................................................................................
Plasterer Foreman......................................................................
Plumber (Welder).......................................................................
Plumber Foreman.......................................................................
Roofer..............................................................................................
Sheet Metal Worker...................................................................
Sheet Metal Worker Foreman................................................

5/1/03
7/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
8/1/03
8/1/03
6/1/03
5/1/03
6/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03

Minimum

Maximum

$32.22
$33.88
$28.06
$28.86
$27.76
$28.76
$14.45
$28.13
$28.93
$33.87
$34.67
$27.86
$32.37
$34.17
$27.26
$14.46
$28.06
$33.52
$34.32
$27.86
$28.66
$33.53
$34.33
$28.42
$31.50
$32.30

$40.28
$42.35
$35.08
$36.08
$34.70
$35.95
$18.06
$35.16
$36.16
$42.34
$43.34
$34.82
$40.46
$42.71
$34.08
$18.06
$35.08
$41.90
$42.90
$34.82
$35.82
$41.91
$42.91
$35.53
$39.37
$40.37

Section 2. That Section 43 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1099-03,
passed June 10, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

1724

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1268-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 46th Street to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 103-24-036,
as more fully described below, to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-036
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 73 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre
Lot Nos. 71 and 72 as shown by the
recorded plat of said Allotment in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga County Records and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 46th Street, (formerly Kennard
Street), at a point distance Northerly measured along said Easterly
line 237.55 feet from the intersection
of the North line of Central Avenue,
S.E., with the Easterly line of East
46th Street and distance Southerly
measured along said Easterly line,
55 feet from the Northerly line of
said Sublot No. 73; thence Northerly
along said Easterly line of East 46th
Street, 55 feet to a point; thence
Easterly and along said Northerly
line of said Sublot No. 73, 150.03 feet
to a point in the Easterly or rear
line of said Sublot No. 73; thence
Southerly parallel with the Easterly
line of East 46th Street and along
the Easterly or rear line of said
Sublot No. 73, 55 feet to a stake;
thence Westerly parallel with the
second course of this description,
150.02 feet to the place of beginning,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.

The City Record
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1269-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement
with
the
Cleveland
Municipal School District to use portions of Collinwood High School for
summer recreational activities.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland desires to have more
summer recreational programs in
Ward 10; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Municipal
School District has agreed to allow
the City of Cleveland to use portions
of Collinwood High School to conduct summer recreational activities;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the Cleveland Municipal
School District to use portions of
Collinwood High School for summer
recreational activities.
Section 2. That the agreement
shall prepared by the Director of
Law, shall contain a provision that
the City shall be responsible for all
claims,
losses,
costs,
damages,
expenses and liabilities for or from
the loss of life or damage or injury
to any person or property resulting
from the City’s use of Collinwood
High School, and shall contain additional terms and conditions as are
necessary to protect the interest of
the City.
Section 3. That any costs associated
with
such
agreement
and
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with summer recreational activities
for 2003 shall be paid from Fund No.
01 SF 001, org. #7004-00 and/or any
other funds appropriated and available for recreation purposes.

1725

69
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earlier period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1270-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with St. Clair Superior
Neighborhood Development Association for the Flower Power Program
for the public purpose of beautification of green space in the City of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development to enter
into a grant agreement with St.
Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Association for the Flower
Power Program for the public purpose of beautification of green
space in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $10,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1271-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 829-03, passed May 12, 2003 as it
pertains to authorizing the Director
of City Planning to enter into a
grant agreement with Old Brooklyn
Community Development Corporation for the Neighborhood Trail Connector Project through the use of
Ward
15
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

70
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 829-03,
passed May 12, 2003 are hereby
amended to reads as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation for
the Neighborhood Trail Connector
Project in order to carry out the
public purpose of conducting a planning study through the use of Ward
15 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Old Brooklyn Community
Development Corporation for the
Neighborhood Trail Connector Project for the public purpose of conducting a planning study through
the use of Ward 15 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the title and Section
1 of Ordinance No. 829-03, passed May
12, 2003 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1272-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc. for the New Home Construction Grant Program through
the use of Ward 5 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Burten, Bell, Carr Development
Inc. for the New Home Construction
Grant Program for the public purpose of providing financial grants to
City of Cleveland residents for new
home construction through the use
of Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $130,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1273-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Famicos Foundation for
a
Home
Rehabilitation
Program
through the use of Ward 4 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Famicos Foundation for a Home Rehabilitation Program for the public purpose of providing housing rehabilitation assistance to Cleveland residents
through the use of Ward 4 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $80,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1274-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Alternative Agency, Inc.
for Hough Community Re-Entry Program through the use of Ward 7
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Alternative Agency, Inc. for
Hough Community Re-Entry Program for the public purpose of providing
job
skills
training
and
employment assistance to ex-offenders residing in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $73,676 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.

1726

July 23, 2003
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1275-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 395-03, passed March 10, 2003 as
amended by Ordinance No. 830-03,
passed May 12, 2003, and as amended by Ordinance No. 918-03, passed
May 19, 2003 as it relates to the
Hough Service Provider Program
through the Use of Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title of Ordinance No. 395-03, passed March 10,
2003 as amended by Ordinance No.
830-03, passed May 12, 2003, and as
amended by Ordinance No. 918-03,
passed May 19, 2003 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with with Joseph Veneziano
and Associates for the Hough Service Provider Program through the
use of Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 395-03, passed March 10,
2003 as amended by Ordinance No.
830-03, passed May 12, 2003, and as
amended by Ordinance No. 918-03,
passed May 19, 2003 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Joseph Veneziano and Associates for Hough Service Provider Program for the public purpose of providing neighborhood citizen services, safety education, crime prevention and social service agency
referral programs to City of Cleveland residents through the use of
Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 3. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 395-03,
passed March 10, 2003 as amended
by Ordinance No. 830-03, passed May
12, 2003, and as amended by Ordinance No. 918-03, passed May 19, 2003
are hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

July 23, 2003
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1276-03.
By Council Members Polensek,
O’Malley, Westbrook and Brady.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Cleveland Restoration
Society for the Heritage Home loan
Program through the use of Ward
11, 16, 18, and 19 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
effective from November 1, 2002 to
October 31, 2003 with the Cleveland
Restoration Society for the Heritage
Home loan Program for the public
purpose of promoting restoration
and preservation of historic homes
in the City of Cleveland through the
use of Wards 11, 16, 18 and 19 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $60,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1277-03.
By Council Member Jones.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
mobile peddling in Ward 1. (Michael
and Rafus Clark).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business district, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 1; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record

71

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
each
persons
named
below
to
engage in peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 1: Michael
and Rafus Clark.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Franchise
Agreement is hereby amended to
require that the payment of the $0.04
subscriber fee referenced in paragraph D of Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1729-2000, passed October 16,
2000, be directed to The Cleveland
Foundation, for administration by
the Cleveland Minority Arts and
Education Fund. All references in
Ordinance No. 1729-2000 to WCTN
shall be construed to refer to the
City’s minority cable channel or its
funding administrator as appropriate.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1281-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the Franchise Agreement to require
the payment from Adelphia, of the
minority cable channel “subscriber
fee” to be directed to The Cleveland
Foundation for administration and
distribution by the Cleveland Minority Arts & Education Fund.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1422-86, passed on July 17, 1986,
the City entered a cable television
franchise
agreement
with
North
Coast Cable Limited, City Contract
No. 37286 (the “Franchise Agreement’); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 305-94, passed February 28, 1994,
the City approved the request to
transfer the cable franchise from
North Coast Cable Limited to Cablevision of Cleveland, L.P.; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1729-2000, passed October 16,
2000, the City conditionally approved
the request to transfer the cable
franchise from Cablevision of Cleveland, L.P. to Adelphia Cleveland
LLC (“Adelphia”) and approved the
extension of the franchise; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 1729-2000, monies from
a permanent endowment are held by
The Cleveland Foundation for the
purpose of funding operations and
programs of a minority cable channel, known as “Cleveland Television
Network” (“WCTN”); and
Whereas, also pursuant to Section
1 of Ordinance No. 1729-2000, within
30 days of the conclusion of the
transfer, Adelphia was required to
begin paying WCTN $0.04 per subscriber per month for each subscriber in any of Adelphia’s franchise areas receiving WCTN’s cablecast (the “subscriber fee”); and
Whereas, it is the desire and
intent of the City and The Cleveland
Foundation to continue programming on the minority cable channel;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

Ord. No. 1352-03.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 238601, passed December 3, 2001 as
amended by Ordinance No. 1894-02,
passed September 23, 2002 as it
relates to the Neighborhood Priorities Program for Community Enrichment through the use of Ward 18
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2386-01, passed December
3, 2001 as amended by Ordinance No.
1894-02, passed September 23, 2002
are hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
effective from January 1, 2002 to
September 30, 2003 with Neighborhood Progress, Inc for the Neighborhood Priorities Program for Community Enrichment for the public
purpose of sustaining Cleveland
neighborhoods through the use of
Ward
18
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2386-01, passed December
3, 2001 as amended by Ordinance No.
1894-02, passed September 23, 2002
are hereby amended repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

1727

72
Ord. No. 1360-03.
By Council Members Britt and
Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the
Greater
Cleveland
Regional
Transit Authority (RTA) to stretch
banners at Shaker Blvd. at Shaker
Square & Adelbert Avenue and Mayfield Road in Little Italy for the
period from August 4, 2003 to September 4, 2003, inclusive, publicizing
the new University Circle/Heights
Area Community Circulator.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority
(RTA) to install, maintain and
remove banners on Shaker Blvd. at
Shaker Square & Adelbert Avenue
and Mayfield Road in Little Italy
signage is visible at the north
entrance, for a period from August
4, 2003 to September 4, 2003, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1361-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into contract with Acme Express
Inc. for professional services necessary to create, design, implement,
and maintain a legislative tracking
system for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to enter into

The City Record
contract with Acme Express Inc. for
professional services necessary to
create, design, implement, and maintain a legislative tracking system
for Cleveland City Council, including training City Council staff on
the system, on the basis of Acme
Express Inc.’s proposal dated July
15, 2003.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $100,000
and shall be paid from Fund Nos. 01
SF 001 and 11 SF 006. The contract
shall
be
initially
certified
for
$30,000, the cost of Phase I services.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1362-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
mobile peddling in Ward 4. (Malachy Nzekwe).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business district, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 4; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
each
persons
named
below
to
engage in peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 4: Malachy
Nzekwe.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

1728

July 23, 2003
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1363-03.
By Council Member Jones.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Ward 1 Festival Committee to
stretch banners at various intersections in Ward 1 for the period from
July 25, 2003 to August 21, 2003,
inclusive, publicizing the Lee Harvard/Seville Community Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Ward 1 Festival Committee to install, maintain
and
remove
banners
on
Miles
Avenue and East 146th Street (north
side of Miles Avenue CEI 811200 and
south side of Miles Avenue CEI
500094), Harvard Ave. at East 147th
Street (north side of Harvard Avenue CEI 2772 and south side of Harvard Avenue CEI 537531), Lee Road
at Harvard Avenue (east side of Lee
Road CPP E12-321 and west side of
Lee Road CEI 814249), Harvard
Avenue at Feiner Drive (north side
of Harvard Avenue CEI 129706 and
south side of Harvard Avenue CEI
344954), Lee Road at Sunny Glenn
Avenue (east side of Lee Road CEI
54411 and west side of Lee Road),
Miles Avenue at East 174th Street
(south side of Miles Avenue CEI
301676 and north side of Miles
Avenue), for a period from July 25,
2003 to August 21, 2003, inclusive.
Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1364-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 976-03,
passed June 10, 2003, authorizing the
Director of Community Development
to enter into or amend contracts
with various agencies to provide
housing, commercial, industrial and
real estate development activities.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 976-03,
passed June 10, 2003, authorized the
Director of Community Development
to enter into or amend contracts
with various agencies to provide
housing, commercial, industrial and
real estate development activities;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 976-03
does not provide authority for the
Director of Community Development
to enter into contract with a forprofit
or
non-profit
organization
serving as a fiscal agent for the
Consortium for Economic and Community Development; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 976-03, passed June 10,
2003, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into or amend contracts with various agencies to provide housing, commercial, industrial
and real estate development activities.
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with a forprofit
or
non-profit
organization
serving as the fiscal agent for the
Consortium for Economic and Community
Development
to
provide
housing, commercial, industrial and
real estate development activities.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 976-03, passed June
10, 2003, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1365-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the MetroHealth Systems to stretch
banners at Townsend and Keyes for
the period from July 31, 2003 to
August 24, 2003, inclusive, publicizing the MetroHealth Center for Community Health’s “Around the World
Health Fair”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the MetroHealth
Systems to install, maintain and
remove banners on Townsend and
Keyes in the vicinity of MetroHealth’s Clement Center where the
MetroHealth signage is visible at
the north entrance, for a period from
July 31, 2003 to August 24, 2003,
inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1366-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
St.
Clair/Superior
Neighborhood
Development Association to stretch
banners at the intersections of East
53rd Street and St. Clair Avenue,
East
55th
Street
and
Superior
Avenue, East 70th and St. Clair and
East 71st and St. Clair Avenue, for
the period from August 7, 2003 to
August 31, 2003, inclusive, publicizing the St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby
authorized and directed to issue a
permit
to the St. Clair/Superior
Neighborhood Development Association to install, maintain and remove
banners at the intersections of East
53rd Street and St. Clair Avenue,
East 55th Street and Superior Avenue, East 70th and St. Clair and East
71st and St. Clair for the period from
August 7, 2003 to August 31, 2003, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so

1729

73
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1367-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
KidsHealth 2020 to stretch banners
at the intersection of East 137th &
Kinsman for the period from July
11, 2003 to August 10, 2003, inclusive,
publicizing
the
KidsHealth
2020
Summer Fair Series.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby
authorized and directed to issue, a
permit to KidsHealth 2020 to install,
maintain and remove banners on
East 137th & Kinsman, for a period
from July 11, 2003, to August 10, 2003,
inclusive.
Said
banner
shall
be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

74
Ord. No. 1368-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1037-03,
passed June 2, 2003, authorizing and
directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to the African
American Family Heritage Day Picnic to stretch, maintain, and remove
one (1) banner at the intersection of
Kinsman Road and Martin Luther
King.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1037-03, passed June 2,
2003, is hereby amended to read as
follows.
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to the
African American Family Heritage
Day Picnic to stretch, maintain, and
remove one (1) banner on the intersection of Kinsman Road and Martin Luther King Boulevard, for their
annual picnic, for the period of July
5, 2003 to August 5, 2003, inclusive.
Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission,
of the owner of any pole must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 1037-03, passed
June 2, 2003, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1369-03.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Sky Bank Triathlon
on July 20, 2003, sponsored by Pacific Sports.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the
holding
of
the
Sky
Bank
Triathlon,
sponsored
by
Pacific

The City Record
Sports, on July 20, 2003, with the
Triathlon beginning at Voinovich
Park; the swim course will be in the
waters of the Northcoast Harbor
area, then will traverse by bike on
the Shoreway from East 9th Street
to West Boulevard, the run will then
take place on downtown streets
throughout Cleveland, utilizing the
Shoreway, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit shall
further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and, be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1370-03.
By Council Members Zone and
Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 13th Annual Dr. John
Carey Memorial AIDS Walk on September 21, 2003, sponsored by Kropf
Public Relations, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 13th Annual Dr.
John Carey Memorial AIDS Walk,
sponsored by Kropf Public Relations, Inc., on September 21, 2003,
with the Walk Route beginning at
Edgewater Park. The 5K Route will
take participants west on Edgewater Drive to West 117th Street; south
on
West
117th
Street,
east
on
Clifton; north on West Boulevard;
back to Edgewater Park, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

1730

July 23, 2003
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1371-03.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the St. Clair-Superior Neighborhood
Development Association to hang
six (6) banners on St. Clair and
Superior Ave. between E. 53rd & E.
71st Sts. using Cleveland Public
Power utility poles (by separate permission) publicizing their special
event for the period of August 7,
2003 to August 31, 2003, inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to St. Clair-Superior Neighborhood Development Association, 6408 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to install, maintain
and remove six (6) banners to be
hung on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate permission)
for the period of August 7, 2003 to
August 31, 2003, inclusive, publicizing their special event, and which
banners are to be placed at the following pole locations and on the following pole numbers: St. Clair Ave.
– 6th Pole E. of E 53rd (N), MT 1935; 5th pole E. of E. 53rd (S), MT 186; Superior Ave. – 4th pole E. of E.
55th (N), KT 11-73; 4th pole E. of E.
55, KT 11-4; St. Clair Ave. – 1st pole
E. of E. 70th (N); 1st pole E. of E.
70th (N), No Tag; 2nd pole W. of E.
71st (S), No Tag; and which pole and
banner locations shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be placed must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners, and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1372-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
God’s House of Prayer and Deliverance to hang three (3) banners on
Woodland Ave. at E. 110 & E. 111
Sts., & Woodhill Rd. at Kennedy &
Cumberland using Cleveland Public
Power utility poles (by separate permission) publicizing their special
event for the period of June 9, 2003
to August 4, 2003, inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to God’s House
of Prayer and Deliverance, 2654
Woodhill
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
to
install,
maintain
and
remove three (3) banners to be hung
on Cleveland Public Power utility
poles (by separate permission) for
the period of June 9, 2003 to August
4 2003, inclusive, publicizing their
special event, and which banners
are to be placed at the following
pole locations and on the following
pole numbers: Woodland Avenue —
between E. 110th St. and E. 111th St.
(S), E4-30; 2nd Pole W. of Woodhill
(N),
E4-18-2;
Woodhill
Road
—
between Kennedy and Cumberland,
E4-18A-5; and which pole and banner
locations shall be approved by the
Director of Public Service in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be placed must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners, and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1375-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an agreement with Louis Stokes
for services to resolve Empowerment Zone audit issues.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Louis Stokes for
services to resolve Empowerment
Zone audit issues, payable from
Fund No. 01-999800-632000.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1278-03.
By Council Members Scott and
Conwell.
An emergency resolution encouraging
the
Cleveland
Municipal
School District to change the name
of Patrick Henry Track Field to
Robert
Eugene
“Bump”
Taylor
Track Field.
Whereas, Robert Eugene “Bump”
Taylor was born in Cleveland and
attended John Adams High School;
and
Whereas, “Bump” was a member
of the football team and the track
team while a student at John Adams
High School; and
Whereas, “Bump” graduated from
John Adams High School in 1959;
and
Whereas, after high school graduation, “Bump” attended Central State
University and was a member of the
track team; and
Whereas, while in college at Central State University, “Bump” was
rated 25th in the world in the 220
yard low hurdles, was the Midwest
champion in the low hurdles and the
440 yard intermediate hurdles, and
ran on the championship 440 yard
relay team; and
Whereas, in 1962 and 1963, “Bump”
was named All-Ohio and All-Midwest
in track; and
Whereas, “Bump” Taylor’s accomplishments were not limited to the
track field as “Bump” also served as
a father figure to thousands of students during the thirty-three years
he served as an educator and track
coach for the Cleveland Public
School System; and
Whereas, “Bump” helped hundreds
of students obtain college opportunities, including scholarships; and
Whereas,
as
a
track
coach,
“Bump” led Glenville track teams to
win three consecutive state track
titles in 1973, 1974, and 1975; and
Whereas, “Bump” also received
Coach of the Year Awards in 1973,
1974, 1975, and 1977; and
Whereas,
“Bump”
was
voted
Teacher of the Year in 1973, 1974,
1980, and 1981; and
Whereas, “Bump” was named to
the prestigious Ohio Track Coaches
Hall of Fame; and

1731

75
Whereas, “Bump” retired from the
Cleveland Public School System in
1996; and
Whereas,
even
in
retirement,
“Bump” continued to serve as a role
model to the students in his community by serving as a coordinator
in the Community Resources program; and
Whereas, “Bump” Taylor, an outstanding
educator
and
devoted
coach, passed on February 10, 1998;
and
Whereas, this Council feels it
would be both appropriate and proper to honor and recognize “Bump”
Taylor by changing the name of
Patrick
Henry
Track
Field
to
Robert
Eugene
“Bump”
Taylor
Track Field” and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council hereby encourages the Cleveland Municipal School District to change the
name of Patrick Henry Track Field
to Robert Eugene “Bump” Taylor
Track Field.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit a
copy of this resolution to Barbara
Byrd
Bennett,
CEO,
Cleveland
Municipal School District.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1279-03.
By Council Member Coats (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution appointing
an
assessment
equalization
board to hear objections to estimated assessments with respect to
improving
Catalpa
Road
from
Euclid Avenue to the north end; and
Cleveland Road from St. Clair to
Taft Avenue, by making specified
improvements
along
the
public
right-of-way.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
545-02, adopted April 1, 2002, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1102-03,
passed June 10, 2003, this Council
declared the necessity of improving
Catalpa Road from Euclid Avenue to
the north end; and Cleveland Road
from St. Clair to Taft Avenue by
relaying and repairing sidewalks,
driveway
aprons,
and
curbs
encroaching upon the public rightof-way, adjustment of castings, as
necessary, and grading, seeding or
re-seeding of tree lawns, as necessary; and
Whereas, under the above resolution, as amended, the estimated
assessments for the improvement
have been prepared and placed on
file in the office of the Clerk of this
Council; and

76
Whereas, notice of the passage of
the resolution, as amended, and of
the filing of the estimated assessments have been duly served on all
property owners to be assessed in
the manner provided by law; and
Whereas, written objection to the
estimated assessments may be filed
by one or more property owners; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That David J. Tarditi,
John M. Moss, and Chavtz Seals, Sr.,
three disinterested freeholders of
the City, are appointed as an assessment equalization board, and Douglas Melton, a disinterested freeholder, is appointed an alternate
member, to hear and determine all
written objections filed under the
law to the estimated assessments
heretofore filed with the Clerk of
this Council under Resolution No.
545-02, adopted April 1, 2002, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1102-03,
passed June 10, 2003, of this Council.
Section 2. That the assessment
equalization board shall meet at
10:30 a.m. on Tuesday, August 12,
2003, at Cleveland City Hall, 601
Lakeside Avenue, Room 106, for the
purposes mentioned above, and on
completion of the hearing and any
adjournments, shall report its recommendations,
including
any
changes which should be made in
the estimated assessments, to this
Council.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
notify, by certified mail, each person who has filed timely written
objection to the estimated assessments of the time and place of the
hearing of the assessment equalization board.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1280-03.
By Council Members O’Malley and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency resolution appointing
an
assessment
equalization
board to hear objections to estimated assessments with respect to
improving Woodhaven Avenue from
West 63rd Street to Ridge Road,
West
98th
Street
from
Lorain
Avenue to Walford Avenue and
West
110th
Street
from
Clifton
Boulevard to Franklin Boulevard, by
making
specified
improvements
along the public right-of-way.
Whereas, under Resolution No. 65603, adopted April 14, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1098-03, passed
June 10, 2003, this Council declared

The City Record
the necessity of improving Woodhaven Avenue from West 63rd Street
to Ridge Road, West 98th Street from
Lorain Avenue to Walford Avenue
and West 110th Street from Clifton
Boulevard to Franklin Boulevard by
relaying and repairing sidewalks,
driveway aprons, and curbs (including adjustments of castings and
landscaping, if necessary); and
Whereas, under the above resolution, as amended, the estimated
assessments for the improvement
have been prepared and placed on
file in the office of the Clerk of this
Council; and
Whereas, notice of the passage of
the resolution, as amended, and of
the filing of the estimated assessments have been duly served on all
property owners to be assessed in
the manner provided by law; and
Whereas, written objection to the
estimated assessments may be filed
by one or more property owners; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That David J. Tarditi,
John M. Moss, and Chavtz Seals, Sr.,
three disinterested freeholders of
the City, are appointed as an assessment equalization board, to hear
and determine all written objections
filed under the law to the estimated assessments heretofore filed with
the Clerk of this Council under Resolution No. 656-03, adopted April 14,
2003, as amended by Ordinance No.
1098-03, passed June 10, 2003 of this
Council.
Section 2. That the assessment
equalization board shall meet at 9:30
a.m. on Wednesday, August 6, 2003,
at Cleveland City Hall, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, Room 106, for the purposes
mentioned above, and on completion
of the hearing and any adjournments, shall report its recommendations, including any changes which
should be made in the estimated
assessments, to this Council.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
notify, by certified mail, each person who has filed timely written
objection to the estimated assessments of the time and place of the
hearing of the assessment equalization board.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1282-03.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency resolution supporting proposed legislative language in
the federal SAFE-TEA Act of 2003
that guarantees an additional $300
million of infrastructure funding to
the State of Ohio.

1732

July 23, 2003
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
recognizes the impact of quality
infrastructure on the City’s ability
to retain and attract manufacturing
firms; and
Whereas, City Council will work
with Ohio’s Congressional delegation to ensure legislative language
in the federal SAFE-TEA Act of
2003 that would guarantee an additional $300 million of infrastructure
funding to the State of Ohio; and
Whereas, specific legislative recommendations will include increasing Ohio’s rate of return from the
Federal Highway Trust Fund from
91 cents to 95 cents of every dollar
it contributes and remedying the
Ethanol Policy; and
Whereas, further, the gasoline tax
distribution
formulas
should
be
amended so that a larger portion is
directed toward infrastructure needs
in urban areas; and
Whereas,
Westside
Industrial
Retention & Expansion Network and
other industrial retention organizations will continue to strongly advocate public investment in infrastructure improvement projects in
Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby supports proposed legislative language in the federal SAFE-TEA Act
of 2003 that guarantees an additional $300 million of infrastructure
funding to the State of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to the appropriate
members of Ohio’s Congressional
delegation.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1283-03.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency resolution opposing
an increase in truck size and weight
on United States highways due to its
detrimental impact on public safety
and the nation’s infrastructure and
further, supporting Senate Bill 1140,
The Safe Highways and Infrastructure Preservation Act which would
cap the length of truck trailers and
prevent the operation of long double
and triple trailer trucks on the
nation’s highways.
Whereas, trucking lobbyists want
federal law to allow triple-trailer
trucks over 100 feet long and weighing up to 135,000 pounds to be able
to
drive
on
federal
highways
throughout the country; and
Whereas, bigger, heavier trucks
are harder to steer and more likely

July 23, 2003
to suffer brake failure and runaway
crashes; and
Whereas, the longer the truck, the
greater the chance of rollover and
jackknifing; and
Whereas, in inclement weather,
the increased splash and spray of
longer, bigger trucks can temporarily blind nearby motorists; and
Whereas, at highway speeds, the
back end of a triple trailer truck
can swing back and forth, endangering traffic in adjoining lanes;
and
Whereas, in an emergency, truck
drivers have virtually no control
over a third trailer; and
Whereas, bigger, longer trucks
will
worsen
an
already
severe
national problem with deteriorating,
crowded highways; and
Whereas, bigger trucks will exacerbate the nation’s bridge problem
— 30% of the nation’s bridges are
structurally deficient or functionally obsolete; and
Whereas, raising the maximum
truck weight limit would result in
increased pavement damage per
mile of truck traffic and would
encourage overweight operations at
even higher and more damaging levels; and
Whereas, according to the United
States Department of Transportation, the damage caused by heavier
trucks is not covered by the taxes
that trucking companies currently
pay — a typical trailer truck pays
only 70% of its federal highway
costs; U.S. taxpayers make up the
difference and will have to pay for
every single mile traveled by a bigger truck; and,
Whereas, a national poll in February, 2003 shows that 89% of likely voters oppose allowing triple
trailer truck operations; and
Whereas, Senate Bill 1140, “The
Safe Highways and Infrastructure
Preservation Act” (SHIPA) would
extend
the
80,000
pound
truck
weight
limit
on
Interstates
to
include the 156,000 miles of federal
aid highways; and
Whereas, further, SHIPA would
cap the length of truck trailers at
53 feet, extend the current freeze of
longer combination vehicles — long
double and triple trailer trucks — to
the entire National Highway System, and close loopholes and provide
guidelines
to
strengthen
weight
enforcement; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby opposes an increase in truck size
and weight on United States highways due to its detrimental impact
on public safety and the nation’s
infrastructure
and
further,
this
Council supports Senate Bill 1140,
The Safe Highways and Infrastructure Preservation Act which would
cap the length of truck trailers and
prevent the operation of long double
and triple trailer trucks on the
nation’s highways
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to the appropriate
members of Ohio’s Congressional
delegation.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1284-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 8301 Cedar Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 91232720002 owned
by 2758 East 79th Street Cafe, Inc.,
DBA Bee Hive Cafe, 8301 Cedar
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force

1733

77
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1285-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 2623 Woodhill Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4155619 owned by Sylvia, Inc., DBA
Safeway Food, 2623 Woodhill Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

78
Res. No. 1286-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2249 East 105th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7644062 owned by Jerry
Saa, DBA P N G Supermarket, 2249
East 105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44106, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1287-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 9209 Quincy Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

The City Record
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6416769 owned by 9209
Quincy, Inc., DBA Sammor Corner,
9209 Quincy Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44106, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1288-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 7902-04 Central Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation
may
object
to
the
renewal of a permit based upon
legal grounds as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operat-

1734

July 23, 2003
ed his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8876756
owned
by
Dionne
Mae
Thomas, DBA Josephine’s Lounge,
7902-04 Central Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44104, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1289-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 8716 Cedar Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safe-

July 23, 2003
ty and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9619191-0005 owned by
Willa G., Inc., DBA Gene’s Corner
Beverage, 8716 Cedar Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1290-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 620 Frankfort
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2289880 owned by Down
River Specialities, Inc., DBA Hydra
Nite Club, 620 Frankfort Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1291-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 3004
St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8381750
owned by Sorma Company, Inc.,
DBA Bada Bing, 3004 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions

1735

79
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1292-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 1616 West 25th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 3568588 owned by Ma
Sabeha, Inc., DBA Pickwick, 1616
West 25th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the

80
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1293-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 5238 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 96933968 owned by
Wing San, Inc., DBA Golden House
Restaurant, 5238 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1294-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 6710 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2119558 owned by Edward Dial, DBA Dawn’s Market &
Deli, 6710 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force

1736

July 23, 2003
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1295-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 14045 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6186509 owned by Joyce
Morton, DBA Bill’s Lounge, 14045 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

July 23, 2003
Res. No. 1296-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 16809-11-13 Euclid
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6605626-0025 owned by
Our Place, Inc., 16809-11-13 Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1297-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution §objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 16601 Euclid
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

The City Record
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 4101794 owned by
Hymie Enterprises, Inc., 16601 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1298-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 18310
Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

1737

81
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2566502
owned by Euclid Green Lanes, Inc.,
18310
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44112, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1299-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 831 East 140th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

82
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3700511 owned by East 140th Food &
Beverage, 831 East 140th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1300-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 662 East 140th
Street, 1st Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8200013 owned by 662
East 140th Street, Inc., DBA Four M
Food Market, 662 East 140th Street,
1st Floor and Basement, Cleveland,
Ohio 44110, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1301-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 16420 Euclid Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
9624545
owned
by
Williams & Williams Enterprises,
Inc., DBA Euclid Deli, 16420 Euclid
Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement,

1738

July 23, 2003
Cleveland, Ohio 44112, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1302-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 14625-27 Woodworth Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 46188550005 owned by
Khalil, Inc., DBA Woodworth Market,
14625-27
Woodworth
Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44112, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

July 23, 2003
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1303-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 Liquor
Permit at 17234 Euclid Avenue, 1st
Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7094927 owned by Progroc, Inc., DBA
Our
Neighborhood
Store,
17234
Euclid Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and

The City Record
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1304-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 13933 St.
Clair Avenue, 1st Floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 9606930 owned by
Wilchris,
Inc.,
DBA
Christine’s
Lounge, 13933 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

1739

83
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1305-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 18029
Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4403791 owned by
JRH, Inc., DBA Johnny & Co., 18029
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44112, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

84
Res. No. 1306-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 625 East 140th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6081178 owned by Moes
Stop One, Inc, 625 East 140th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1307-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 11625 Superior
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

The City Record
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1944364 owned by Dave’s
Drive Thru, Inc., 11625 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1308-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 10509 Ashbury
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operat-

1740

July 23, 2003
ed his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6548639 owned by 10509
Ashbury, Inc., DBA First Choice
Beverage, 10509 Ashbury Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga
County,
and
a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1309-03.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4075 Rocky River
Drive.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

July 23, 2003
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7178802 owned by Raja
International, Inc., DBA 7-Eleven
Food Store, #56, 4075 Rocky River
Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1310-03.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 Liquor
Permit at 15520 Munn Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation
may
object
to
the
renewal of a permit based upon
legal grounds as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
84189841820
owned
by
Speedway
Super America, LLC, DBA Speedway
#9338, 15520 Munn Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44111, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1311-03.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 16800
Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit,
Permit
No.
4465647-0001
owned by Kamm’s Corner Tavern,
DBA Kilbane’s Pub, 16800 Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, and

1741

85
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1312-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3314
Broadview Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 1577821 owned by
Club 3 C, DBA Club 3 C, 3314 Broadview Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two

86
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1313-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 3742 Fulton Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7677734 owned by Sam L. Saker,
DBA Fulton & Denison Sunoco, 3742
Fulton Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1314-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3801-03
Denison Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4817939 owned by
Kovach-Ford,
Inc.,
DBA
Pinky’s
Cafe, 3801-03 Denison Avenue, 1st
Floor and Basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

1742

July 23, 2003
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1315-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 481822 Memphis Avenue and Patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 3845983
owned by H I M, Inc., DBA Memphis
Tavern, 4818-22 Memphis Avenue
and Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44144,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

July 23, 2003
Res. No. 1316-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 5200 Memphis
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7315819 owned by Revenue, Inc., 5200 Memphis Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44144, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1317-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 2317 Denison Avenue, 1st Floor Front and
Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

The City Record
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 2066426 owned by
Denison Executive Club, Inc., DBA
Denison Club, 2317 Denison Avenue,
1st
Floor
Front
and
Basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1318-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor
Permit
at
2101
Denison
Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

1743

87
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
4483278
owned
by
Karams Corp., DBA Johnny’s Food
Market, 2101 Denison Avenue, 1st
Floor and Basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1319-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 4301 State Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

88
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0347602 owned by B C G, Inc., DBA
Bus Stop Inn, 4301 State Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1320-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X and
D3 Liquor Permit at 4497 Broadview
Road, 1st Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X and D3 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6472751 owned by Nu
Bar, Inc., DBA Vanta’s Lounge, 4497
Broadview Road, 1st Floor and
Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1321-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 9621 Mt. Auburn
Road, 1st Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 24034660005, owned by
East 97th Food Market, Inc., DBA
Eastside Market, 9621 Mt. Auburn
Road,
1st
Floor
and
Basement,

1744

July 23, 2003
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1322-03.
By Council Member.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 13108 Buckeye
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1, C2 andD6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6548662, owned by 13108
Buckeye, Inc., DBA Buckeye Beverage, 13108 Buckeye Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44120, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies

July 23, 2003
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1323-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 13009 Buckeye
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2, C2X andD6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1072886, owned by
Buckeye Petroleum, Inc., DBA Buckeye East Mini Mart, 13009 Buckeye
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1324-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 11312 Buckeye
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7742555, owned by Gene
A. Sardon, DBA Gene’s Corner Beverage Store #1, 11312 Buckeye Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force

1745

89
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1325-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2742 Van Aken
Boulevard.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9198474, owned by Van
Aken Market, Inc., DBA Market on
the Square, 2742 Van Aken Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

90
Res. No. 1326-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3019 East 116th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
1896113, owned by Albert Daily,
DBA Daily’s Food Mart, 3019 East
116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1327-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor
Permit
at
12916
Forest
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal

The City Record
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 87731650005, owned by T
& J Beverage Co., DBA T & J Beverage Store, 12916 Forest Avenue,
1st Floor and Basement, Cleveland,
Ohio 44120, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1328-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 3029 Woodhilll
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disre-

1746

July 23, 2003
gard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1745652, owned by Corlyn, Inc., DBA V I P Lounge, 3029
Woodhill Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1329-03.
By Council Member O’Malley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 6625 Denison Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation
may
object
to
the
renewal of a permit based upon
legal grounds as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,

July 23, 2003
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 0769039 owned by
Blum, Inc., DBA S & J Pub, 6625
Denison Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1330-03.
By Council Member O’Malley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3837 Ridge Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
6571521-0005 owned by O’Reilly’s
Niteclub, DBA None on File, 3837
Ridge Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44144,

The City Record
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1331-03.
By Council Member O’Malley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 2109 Tate
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 1152290 owned by
TNT Lounge Bar, Inc., DBA Butts
Bar & Grill, Inc., 2109 Tate Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two

1747

91
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1332-03.
By Council Member O’Malley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 6301 Denison Avenue, 1st
Floor and Basement and repealing
Resolution No. 569-03, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit to 6301 Denison
Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement by
Resolution No. 569-03 adopted by the
Council on March 31, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Michael C. OíMalley and Applicant, Leslie J. Cross, President of
Cross
Entertainment,
Inc.,
DBA
Great Lakes Tavern, 6301 Denison
Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 18270480005, a copy of which
is in the file for this address with
the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor
Permit
to
6301
Denison
Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 569-03, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

92
Res. No. 1333-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 17438 St.
Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8320927, owned
by Smoht Corporation, 17438 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1334-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 397
East 156th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

The City Record
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 5819446,
owned by Melbourne Men of Business, Inc., DBA Cafe Bluebird, 397
East 156th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1335-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 18414-16 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

1748

July 23, 2003
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7501515, owned by Romito Enterprises,
Inc.,
18414-16
St.
Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1336-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 15638 Holmes
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

July 23, 2003
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8780685, owned by Tamara Tait, DBA R & T Resale & Variety, 15638 Holmes Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1337-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D6 Liquor Permit at 16101
Arcade Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the

The City Record
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 0254173, owned
by Walter H. Scott, DBA Arcade
Bar, 16101 Arcade Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1338-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 13900 Kinsman Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0437070 owned by Baramok, Inc.,
DBA Citgo Gas Station, 13900 Kinsman Road and Gas Pumps, Cleve-

1749

93
land, Ohio 44120, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1339-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 11902 Kinsman
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0390153-0010 owned by
King E. Baker, DBA B & B Drive
Thru Beverage and Food Mart, 11902
Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

94
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1340-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 15315 Bartlett Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2714240 owned by 15315
Bartlett, Inc., DBA Johnson’s Deli,
15315 Bartlett Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44120, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1341-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 13401 Kinsman Avenue,
1st Floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0296859 owned by Ashishi, Inc., DBA
Ranie Rood Market, 13401 Kinsman
Avenue, 1st Floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

1750

July 23, 2003
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1342-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 15310 Kinsman
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6208815 owned by Mr VS
Convenience, Inc., DBA Mr VS Convenience Store, 15310 Kinsman Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

July 23, 2003
Res. No. 1343-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 12301-03 Imperial
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 3820139 owned by Hiam
A. Inc., 12301-03 Imperial Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1344-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 14005 Benwood
Avenue.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9446170 owned by WDAD,
Inc., DBA Shortcut Deli & Beverage,
14005 Benwood Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44128, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1345-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3600 East 116th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal

1751

95
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9115172 owned by Tuz,
Inc., 3600 East 116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1346-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3580 East 116th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

96
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1433448 owned by Chillie’s Beverage Co., DBA Chillie’s Beverage, 3580 East 116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1347-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3918 East 140th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a

The City Record
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8917046 owned by 3918
Co., DBA East 140th Street Market,
3918 East 140th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44128, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1348-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3695-97
East 131st Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other

1752

July 23, 2003
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 9179589 owned by
VCH, Inc., DBA Side by Side Bar &
Delicatessen,
3695-97
East
131st
Street, 1st Floor and Basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1349-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 14510 Kinsman Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure provid-

July 23, 2003
ing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
6549670 owned by 14510, Inc., DBA
Kinsman Sunoco, 14510 Kinsman
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1350-03.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 6520
Lorain Avenue, 1st Floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,

The City Record
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8200146, owned
by 6520 Tavern, Inc., DBA Jo Jo’s,
6520 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44111, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1351-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3065-77
East 123rd Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,

1753

97
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4580028, owned by
Kendrick Lounge, Inc., DBA Club
123, 3065-77 East 123rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1373-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the stock transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
to 12916 Forest Avenue, 1st Floor
and Basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a stock
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to T & J Beverage Co., DBA T & J Beverage Store,
12916 Forest Avenue, 1st Floor and
Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
Permanent Number 87731650005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and

98
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the stock
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to T & J Beverage Co., DBA T & J Beverage Store,
12916 Forest Avenue, 1st Floor and
Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
Permanent Number 87731650005; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1374-03.
By Council Member Jones.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New D3A
Liquor Permit at 4209 East 131st
Street and repealing Resolution No.
1131-03, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New D3A Liquor Permit to 4209
East 131st Street by Resolution No.
1131-03 adopted by the Council on
June 9, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
D3A Liquor Permit to Winston
Howse, Inc., DBA Winston’s Place,
1st Floor and Basement, 4209 East

The City Record
131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 9700692, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 2402-02, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1427-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution consenting to the remission of certain
unpaid or delinquent taxes, penalties or interest charged against certain real property located in the
City of Cleveland.
Whereas, Ohio Sub. H.B. No. 493
allows for the remission of unpaid
or delinquent taxes, penalties or
interest charged against real property, including those that became a
lien before the applicant acquired
title to the property or before the
property was first used for an
exempt purpose; and
Whereas, the Tax Commissioner
may remit such taxes, penalties and
interest only with the consent of the
board of education of the city, local
or exempted village school district
in which the property is located, and
with the consent of the taxing
authority of every other subdivision
to which such taxes, penalties or
interest are owed; and
Whereas, Courts of Praise, Inc.
failed to file for property tax exemptions when it acquired its property
located in Cleveland, Ohio (Permanent Parcel Nos. 116-14-060, 116-14049, 116-10-013); and
Whereas, Courts of Praise, Inc.
owes property taxes for 1995, 1996
and 1997 on Permanent Parcel Nos.
116-14-049 and 116-14-060 and owes
property taxes for 2000 on Permanent Parcel No. 116-10-013, in a total
amount of $3,408.51; and
Whereas, Courts of Praise, Inc.
has applied to the Tax Commissioner to remit the above stated delinquent taxes, penalties or interest for
the above stated permanent parcel
numbers; and
Whereas, Courts of Praise, Inc.
has requested that the City of Cleveland consent to the remission of said
delinquent taxes, penalties or interest charged against its property,
Permanent Parcel Nos. 116-14-049,
116-14-060 and 116-10-013; and
Whereas, it is the understanding
of this Council that the properties
located at the above mentioned parcel numbers are used for worships
services, a community service center
and parking for the church and community service center; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public

1754

July 23, 2003
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City hereby consents to the remission of certain unpaid or delinquent
taxes, penalties or interest charged
against Permanent Parcel Nos. 11614-049, 116-14-060 and 116-10-013 in
the amount of $3,408.51.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1428-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit at 10202 Sophia
Avenue, 1st Floor and repealing
Resolution No. 716-03, objecting to
said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at
10202 Sophia Avenue, 1st Floor by
Resolution No. 716-03 adopted by the
Council on April 28, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit
based upon and pursuant to a cooperation agreement by and through
City Council Representative, Kenneth L. Johnson and Applicant,
Anita P. Davidson, DBA Smokey’s,
10202 Sophia Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
1946870, a copy of which is in the
file for this address with the City
Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 10202
Sophia Avenue be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 716-03, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

July 23, 2003
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 502-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 2065 East 36th Street
and 3606 Prospect Avenue to Hallee,
Inc.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 597-03.
By Council Members Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to employ one or more professional consultants to conduct a feasibility study and design improvements to the Water Pollution Control building, including the preparation of a master plan; determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing
the improvements; and authorizing
the director to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 642-03.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating
and replacing the East 117th Street
and St. Clair Avenue area sewer system, which may include but not be
limited to installing manholes and
catch basins, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. At the end of Section 2, add the
following: “All contracts entered
into under this ordinance shall contain the MBE, FBE, and workforce
goals in effect at the time the contracts were bid.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

The City Record
Ord. No. 643-03.
By Council Members O’Malley,
Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating
and replacing the Archmere Avenue
area sewer system, which may include but not be limited to installing
manholes and catch basins, and
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. At the end of Section 2, add the
following: “All contracts entered
into under this ordinance shall contain the MBE, FBE, and workforce
goals in effect at the time the contracts were bid.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 644-03.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Lewis, Scott, Conwell, Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the Superior
Avenue area sewer system, which
may include but not be limited to
installing
manholes
and
catch
basins, and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into
one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. At the end of Section 2, add the
following: “All contracts entered
into under this ordinance shall contain the MBE, FBE, and workforce
goals in effect at the time the contracts were bid.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 645-03.
By Council Members Lewis, Jackson, Rybka, Coats, Cimperman and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the East 71st
Street area sewer system, which
may include but not be limited to
installing
manholes
and
catch
basins, and authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into one
or more public improvement contracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvement.

1755

99
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. At the end of Section 2, add the
following: “All contracts entered
into under this ordinance shall contain the MBE, FBE, and workforce
goals in effect at the time the contracts were bid.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 652-03.
By Council Members Polensek,
Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to execute Release of
Deed Restrictions for three properties located on East 185th Street.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 690-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 117th Street to
Ali Development Corporation.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. Insert new Section 6 to read as
follows:
“Section 6. That the deed shall
contain a provision that any use of
the property shall comply with zoning and that the site plan for any
construction on the property shall,
prior to commencement of construction, be approved by the Cleveland
City Planning Commission.”.
2. Renumber existing Section 6 to
new “Section 7”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 783-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Superior Avenue to
Ohio Sauce Corporation.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

100

The City Record

July 23, 2003

Ord. No. 893-03.
By Council Members Sweeney, Coats and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into an agreement with the Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority for the Euclid Corridor Transportation Project.
Approved by Directors of Public Service, Public Utilities, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service, Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, in the Restated General Agreement, at “RECITALS”, third paragraph, line 1, strike “$246 million” and insert “$213 million”.
2. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, Article I, after the definition for “CENTER MEDIAN BUS STATION”
insert the following new definition:
“CERTIFICATIONS AND ASSURANCES” shall mean the annual Certifications and Assurances required of GCRTA
as an FTA grantee by FTA Circular 9300.1A, Appendix C, as it may be amended from time to time.”.
3. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, Article I, after the definition for “ECTP” insert the following new
definitions:
“FTA MASTER AGREEMENT” shall mean the annual agreement between GCRTA and the FTA, known as FTA
MA(9) as it may be amended from time to time, that governs grant funding under 49 USC §5301 et seq., the
National Capital Transportation Act of 1969 as amended, the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, 23
USC §101, or other federal enabling legislation.
“FULL FUNDING GRANT AGREEMENT” shall mean an agreement entered into between GCRTA and the FTA
for grant funding of the ECTP or any part thereof pursuant to the requirements of FTA Circular 5200.1A as it
may be amended from time to time.”.
4. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, Article 2.01, item 4. “Utility Work”, line 2, strike “and lights,” and
insert “, lights, wiring and connections,”.
5. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, Article 4.01, item C., lines 1 and 2, strike “(except as provided in
Article VI),”; and at item E, lines 3 and 4, strike “CITY and GCRTA agree to engage in discussions to achieve
consensus” and insert “CITY and GCRTA shall achieve agreement without delay”
6. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, Article 4.04, item A, line 1, after “Schedule”, insert “CITY and GCRTA
shall cooperatively develop a master schedule of ECTP and CITY Projects as soon after this Agreement is signed
as practicable that will minimize the likelihood that CITY, GCRTA, or their contractors will cause delay in the
construction schedule for ECTP or CITY Projects.”
7. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, Article 5.01, in the table, strike items 3 and 4 in their entirety and
insert:

; following “Phase III” line 1, strike “$10.0” and insert “$8.0”; following “Phase III” in line 3 after “contract.” insert
“CITY shall not be responsible for cost overruns on the ECTP contracts.”; following “Phase III” in line 5, strike
“for any reason. By July 1st of each year the” and insert “by July 1st of each year”; and following “Phase III”
strike from line 9 to the end of the section in its entirety and insert: “discontinued or terminated prior to its completion, GCRTA shall send CITY a detailed and reasonable estimate of City’s proportional share of the funds necessary to close out GCRTA’s existing ECTP financial commitments. CITY shall pay GCRTA by December 1 such
reasonable estimate up to the amount scheduled to be paid under this Article during the then-current year. Upon
receiving such estimated payment, GCRTA shall close out and make final payment on all ECTP contracts, and
shall return any unspent money to CITY and other funding agencies based upon their relative contributions after
requisite approvals, if any, of the FTA. If the estimated payment is insufficient to pay CITY’s proportional share
of the close-out costs, GCRTA shall invoice the CITY for its proportional share of the deficiency. CITY shall pay
such amount, but CITY’s total payment shall not exceed the amount scheduled to be paid under this Article for
the then-current year. Except for such close-out payments, CITY shall have no obligation to make further scheduled payments described in this Article, or to perform any other obligation under this agreement.”.
8. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, strike Article 5.02 in its entirety and insert:
“5.02 CITY also commits to provide and pay for all design, construction and management of basement
areaways/vaults work described in Article 2.02. These costs are currently estimated by CITY to be $10 million,
which is in addition to the payments stated in Article 5.01 above. All additional costs beyond $10 million associated with the basement areaways/vaults shall be borne entirely by CITY. CITY shall have no obligation to proceed with the basement areaways/vaults project prior to the receipt of the Full Funding Grant Agreement.”.
9. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, strike the text of Article VI in its entirety and insert: “GCRTA has
committed to reimburse CITY for median landscape maintenance in accordance with Article 7.03 B.”
10. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, at Article 7.03, item A., line 1, after “7.03(B)” insert “and (C) and
7.06,”; at the end of the item insert the following: “Any project to install public art as part of the ECTP shall
include provisions for maintenance from non-CITY funds.”; and at item C, line 3, strike “Section” and insert “Article”.
11. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, Article 9.01, item A., line 4, after “areas.” insert “For uses up to
one (1) year in duration, CITY shall issue a license under Section 183.16 of the Codified Ordinances.”; at the end
of item A., insert the following: “GCRTA shall restore each property to its preexisting condition when the property is no longer needed by GCRTA for the purposes described in this paragraph.”; in item B, line 6, after “public transit” insert “and incidental related”; in line 11, after “Center” insert “Median Bus Stations,”; strike the text
of item C.1. in its entirety and insert: “1. As part of the consideration for the benefits to CITY from the ECTP,
CITY shall convey to GCRTA the properties identified on Exhibit A, excluding street dedications or property on
streets closed to traffic, and such other properties as may be agreed upon between CITY and GCRTA. The form
of CITY’s deed shall substantially conform to the deed attached as Exhibit “B.” CITY shall also, where necessary for construction and maintenance of ECTP, grant to GCRTA slope and drainage easements on CITY-owned
property. The property interests described in this paragraph shall be conveyed to GCRTA only after passage of
appropriate legislation and resolutions by the Board of Control.”; and at C.2., line 1, after “license” and insert

1756

July 23, 2003

The City Record

101

“under Section 183.16 of the Codified Ordinances”..
12. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, Article 10.04, line 4, after “if applicable,” insert “CITY shall”.
13. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, Article 11.08, reletter the first item 1., the second item 2., item 3.
and item 4. to “A.”, “B.”, “C.” and “D.”.
14. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, Article 11.09, strike the text of the Article and insert the following:
“The ECTP is subject to the award of federal grant funds and to the execution of a Full Funding Grant Agreement (“FFGA”) by GCRTA and FTA. Prior to the execution of the FFGA, and to the extent required by law,
regulations, or the terms of federal or state grants, CITY and GCRTA shall enter into a separate agreement to
assure CITY compliance with applicable FTA laws, regulations, circulars and agreements that apply to ECTP
and GCRTA including but not limited to the FTA Master Agreement, Certifications and Assurances, and the FFGA.
The provisions contained in this paragraph shall apply to a CITY project only if such project is funded in part
by federal funds. A copy of the FFGA shall be provided to the City Council liaison prior to execution by CITY.”.
15. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, Article XII., in the last line, strike “Article 3.02 of this agreement”
and insert “Articles 3.01 and 3.02 of this Agreement”.
16. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, Article XV, at the end, add the following: “For all ECTP construction contracts, GCRTA will provide CITY’s Director of the Office of Equal Opportunity with reports, on a
quarterly basis, or as required by the Director, on employment of Cleveland residents, contractor compliance with
DBE program requirements, participation of MBE/FBE firms as defined under CITY’s MBE/FBE program, and
other available related information upon CITY’s reasonable request.”
17. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, after Article XV, insert the following new article:
“ARTICLE XVI
RESIDENT HIRE LAW
This Agreement and the construction contracts for the ECTP shall be subject to Chapter 188 of the Codified
Ordinances regardless of the execution dates of this Agreement or any ECTP construction contract.”
18. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, at the end, strike “Exhibit “A” [Property List]” and insert the following:
“EXHIBIT “A”
EUCLID CORRIDOR TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
Property Owned by City of Cleveland

19. In Section 1, in the Restated Agreement, at the end, at “EXHIBIT “B””, at item 2.(1), line 1, strike “twentyfour (24)” and insert “thirty-six (36)”.
20. In Section 3, line 5, after “public transit” insert “and incidental related”; in line 8, after “Center” insert “Median Bus Stations,”; and strike lines 14 and 15 in their entirety and insert “purposes.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 931-03.

1757

102
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Hough Avenue to
Bruce A. Jones.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 996-03.
By Council Members Coats, White
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 129.29, 129.291, and
129.292 relating to contracts for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 999-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to maintain,
repair, and replace substation equipment, including but not limited to
batteries, switchgear, transformers
and circuit breakers, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end, add the
following: “ The contract or contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
provide that they are subject to the
City’s employment goals for MBEs,
FBEs, and City residents in effect
at the time the contract or contracts
are bid.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1009-03.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the U.S. Department of Justice,
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms for the 2003 Gang Resistance Education and Training Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1012-03.

The City Record
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Federal Emergency Management Agency for the 2003 FEMA
Assistance to Firefighters Grant;
and to enter into one or more
requirement contracts necessary for
the purchase of equipment and
training necessary to implement the
grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1150-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair or
install fencing at various facilities,
for the Division of Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end, add the
following: “ The contract or contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
provide that they are subject to the
City’s employment goals for MBEs,
FBEs, and City residents in effect
at the time the contract or contracts
are bid.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1151-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to repair and replace various water, sewer and gas lines
damaged by pole replacement, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end, add the
following: “ The contract or contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
provide that they are subject to the
City’s employment goals for MBEs,
FBEs, and City residents in effect
at the time the contract or contracts
are bid.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1152-03.

1758

July 23, 2003
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to provide snow removal
services at various locations, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end, add the
following: “ The contract or contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
provide that they are subject to the
City’s employment goals for MBEs,
FBEs, and City residents in effect
at the time the contract or contracts
are bid.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1154-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement
contracts
of
labor,
material and services necessary to
maintain outdoor residential lighting and energy efficient programs,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end, add the
following: “ The contract or contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
provide that they are subject to the
City’s employment goals for MBEs,
FBEs, and City residents in effect
at the time the contract or contracts
are bid.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1156-03.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale by the
City of not to exceed $215,000,000
Airport System Revenue Bonds to
refund outstanding Revenue Bonds
issued for the purpose of improving
the Airport System and to pay costs
incurred to acquire property for the
Airport System; authorizing Hedge
Agreements; authorizing not to exceed $80,000,000 Airport System Revenue Bonds to refund outstanding
Revenue Bonds under Hedge Agreements; authorizing Supplemental Indentures,
Bond
Purchase
Agreements, Official Statements and other
agreements related to those Bonds;
and
authorizing
and
approving

The City Record

July 23, 2003
related matters.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 3, strike
“$215,000,000” and insert “$160,000,000”;
and beginning in line 8, strike
“Authorizing
Not
To
Exceed
$80,000,000 Airport System Revenue
Bonds to Refund Outstanding Revenue Bonds Under Hedge Agreements;”.
2. In Section 2, first paragraph,
line 6, strike “$215,000,000” and
insert “$160,000,000”.
3. In Section 6(a), line 2, strike
“$215,000,000” and insert “$160,000,000”,
and in line 5, after “Refunded
Bonds,” insert “provided, further,
that the aggregate principal amount
of Series 2003 bonds and swaption
refunding bond issued under authority of this ordinance shall not

exceed $160,000,000”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1167-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to clean and maintain
scale pits at the Ridge Road Scale
House and Ridge Road Transfer Station, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public

103
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1168-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of furniture, fixtures, and
equipment, for the Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1169-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of various on-road
vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment and other aftermarket items necessary
to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes, including labor and materials necessary for vehicle
rehabilitation for the various divisions of City government; and to make additional appropriations of Five Hundred
Thousand Dollars of the Enterprise Funds.
Approved by Directors of Public Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, page 2, at strike item 56 in its entirety and insert:
“56
56A
56B

Compact-Size Passenger Car
SUV, 4x4
Full-Size Cargo Van

Air Quality
Air Quality
Air Quality

4
1
1

$14,500
$18,500
$16,500

$58,000
$18,500
$16,500”

2. In Section 1, on page 3, strike items 127 through 162 in their entirety, including the column titles, and insert
the following:
Item
Extended
Number
Item Description
User
Quantity
Est. Cost
Est. Cost
127
128
129
130
131
132
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
158A
159
160
161
162

SUV, 4x4
SUV, 4x4
Mid-Size Passenger Car
Mid-Size Passenger Car, Station Wgn.
Pick-up, 4x4
Full-Size Cargo Van
SUV, 4x4
Cab/Chassis w/Dump-Plow
Cab/Chassis w/Sewer Cleaner
SUV, 4x4
Mid-Size Passenger Car-CNG
Pick-up, 4x4
Full-Size Cargo Van
Cab/Chassis w/Dump-Plow-Insert
Cab/Chassis w/Aerial Device
Cab/Chassis w/Aerial Device
Cab/Chassis w/Aerial Device
Cab/Chassis w/Aerial Device
Cab/Chassis w/Aerial Device
Cab/Chassis w/Digger-Derrick
Cab/Chassis w/Digger-Derrick
Yard Crane
Sweeper/Scrubber
Pole Trailer
Brush Chipper
Arrow Board
ARFF Vehicle

Office of Cable TV
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
WPC
WPC
WPC
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CHIA

1
7
7
10
14
3
4
1
1
2
2
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
1
1
1

24,000
29,000
18,000
18,360
27,000
26,000
24,000
120,000
220,000
24,000
21,000
27,000
26,000
60,000
90,000
115,000
115,000
135,000
135,000
165,000
165,000
145,000
27,000
10,000
30,000
12,000
493,772

24,000
203,000
126,000
183,600
378,000
78,000
96,000
120,000
220,000
48,000
42,000
54,000
52,000
120,000
90,000
115,000
115,000
135,000
135,000
165,000
165,000
145,000
27,000
20,000
30,000
12,000
493,772”

3. In Section 2, line 3, after “67 SF 001,” insert “13 SF 160, 13 SF 161,” and in line 7, after “Finance.” insert “At this
time, it is estimated that $3.3 million dollars of the total cost of these contracts will be paid from enterprise funds.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council
before final passage.

1759

104
Ord. No. 1170-03.
By Council Members Sweeney,
White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to enact
new Section 411.011 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976;
to amend Sections 503.01, 503.99, and
507.06, as amended by various ordinances; and to repeal Section 503.02,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410A, passed September 22, 1924, relating to street and sidewalk obstruction permits and street opening permits.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Legislation, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at Section 411.011,
division (d)(2), line two, strike
“used” and insert “issued”.
2. In Section 2, at Section 507.06,
division (d)(2), line two, strike
“used” and insert “issued”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1174-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more
contracts with various housing development entities, or their designees, to implement the Housing
Trust Fund Program, for costs associated with various housing activities.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1175-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts with Maximum Independent Living to provide seminars
and materials on housing accessibility and universal design principles to assist people with disabilities.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1176-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development
and
Building
and
Housing to enter into one or more
contracts without competitive bidding with Hewlett-Packard Co. for
the purchase of computer hardware
maintenance, for the Departments of
Community Development and Building and Housing, for a period not to
exceed two years.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Community
Development,
Building
and
Housing, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1179-03.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone
Agreement
with
Sutton
Builders, Inc. to provide for a ten
year sixty percent tax abatement on
personal property and real property
improvements to assist with the
acquisition and renovation of real
property located at 2507, 2509, and
2511 Professor Avenue, in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1180-03.
By Council Members Conwell, Gordon and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 315-03, passed March
24, 2003, relating to providing economic development assistance to
improve property located at 11316
Euclid Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1181-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Taxable Urban Renewal Temporary
Refunding Bonds in the principal
amount not to exceed $4,350,000 for
the purpose of (1) refunding outstanding Taxable Urban Renewal
Notes, Series 2002 issued for the purpose of acquiring property for Urban
Renewal Project Activities and (2)
paying certain costs of issuance of
said Refunding Bonds; and authorizing related matters.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1183-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 345.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 433-97, passed June 12,
1997, relating to General Industry
Districts; and to supplement the cod-

1760

July 23, 2003
ified ordinances by enacting new
Section 325.571 relating to rock
crushing.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on City
Planning, Legislation.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1193-03.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1956-98,
passed December 7, 1998, relating to
a requirement contract of various
plumbing and heating equipment
and
supplies,
including
related
materials and supplies, for the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, for a period of three
years.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 818-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on the south side of
Shawnee Avenue near the intersection of Neff Road and East 185th
Street to a Local Retail Use District
(Map Change No. 2077, Sheet No. 7).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 819-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on the south side of
St. Clair Avenue between East 165th
Street and East 166th Street to a
Semi-Industry Use District (Map
Change No. 2076, Sheet No. 7).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 820-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on the south side of
Lakeshore Boulevard between East
171st Street and East 174th Street to
One-Family Residential Use District
and to an “A” Area District (Map
Change No. 2075, Sheet No. 7).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1022-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on the south side of

The City Record

July 23, 2003
St. Clair Avenue between East 115th
and East 117th Streets to a General
Retail
Business
District
(Map
Change No. 2080, Sheet No. 8).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law, Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 822-03.
By Council Member Johnson (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Woodhill Court S.E.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 15.
Nays 0.
MOTION
By Council Member Johnson seconded by Council Member Jones and
unanimously
carried
that
the
absence of Council Members Merle
Gordon, Michael O’Malley, Nelson
Cintron, Jr. and Robert White, be
and is hereby auhorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:14 p.m. to meet on Wednesday,
August 13, 2003 in the Council Chambers.

105

Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Kathy Velkoff, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 415-03.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by Shook/Kokosing,
LLC., employed by contract for the
public improvement of the Baldwin
Water Works Plant Chemical/Administration Project, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, under City Contract No.
61131, authorized by Ordinance No.
1975-02, passed December 16, 2002,
and Board of Control Resolution No.
174-03, adopted March 26, 2003 is
hereby approved.
NAME

WORK

Schweizer Dipple Inc.
HVAC System
Smith & Schaefer
Laboratory Casework
Suburban Maintenance
Interior Masonry, Capillary
Waterproofing, Special
Coatings, Concrete Rehab
VIP Masonry
Exterior Masonry,
Interior/Exterior
Masonry Rehab
Western Reserve Interiors
Drywall & Acoustical
Ceiling System
Whitacre Engineering Co.
Furnish & Erect Concrete
Reinforcement
Action Door
Overhead Coiling Doors
Air Control Products
Toilet Accessories

Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

Building Technicians Corp.
Modified Built-Up Roofing
Coleman Spohn
Plumbing System
Concrete Coring
Concrete Coring &
Sawcutting
Corporate Floors
Resilient Flooring
Crystal Clear
Glass and Glazing &
Fiberglass Doors

ORDINANCES
None

BOARD OF CONTROL

Educational Equipment
Visual Display Boards &
Operable Panel Partition
Guist Painting
Painting

July 16, 2003
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, July 16, 2003,
at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Campbell
presiding.
Present: Mayor Campbell, Directors Chandra, Baker, Acting Directors Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting
Directors
Wasik,
Carroll,
Smith,
Ronayne, Brown and Williams.
Absent: Directors Hudecek, Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.

North American Precast
Precast Hollowcore Planks
Precision Environmental
Asbestos Abatement
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.

1761

Resolution No. 416-03.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by National Engineering & Contracting, employed by
contract for the public improvement
of Morgan Finished Water Pumping
Station Project for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, under City Contract No. 57952,
authorized by Ordinance Nos. 8172000 and 1262-01, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
February 12, 2001, and June 19, 2001,
respectively, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 427-01, adopted June
28, 2001, are hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

Work

Resource International Inc.
(FBE)
Geotechnical Services
$582,000.00 (1.3%)
Minority Electric Co.
(FBE)
Electrical Work
$900,000.00 (2.0%)
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.
Resolution No. 417-03.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 2453-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
March 10, 2003, Washington Group
International, Inc. is hereby selected from a list of firms determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities as
the firm to be employed by contract
to provide professional services necessary to provide various general
engineering services, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities hereby is
authorized to enter into a contract
with Washington Group International, Inc. based upon its proposal
dated April 9, 2003, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide for furnishing of
professional services as contained in
said proposal, for an aggregate fee
not in excess of $1,950,000.00, and
shall contain such additional provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Washington
Group
International,
Inc. for the above mentioned professional service is hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK

Ralph Tyler Companies (MBE)
$406,000.00 (20.82%)
Sigma Associates, Inc. (FBE)
$97,950.00 (5.03%)
Burgess & Niple, Limited
$399,300.00 (20.48%)
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Direc-

The City Record

106

July 23, 2003

tors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.

2000, 522-2000 and 1234-2000, passed
May 14, 2001, June 19, 2000 and July
17, 2000, and Board of Control Resolution No. 310-03, adopted May 28,
2003, is hereby approved.

tors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.

Resolution No. 418-03.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Par Electrical Contractors, Inc. for an estimated quantity
of
utility
pole
replacement,
all
items, (nos. 1 thru 44) for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two (2) years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on June 11, 2003, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 232-03, passed April 7, 2003,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to Twelve
Million Seven Hundred Ninety Nine
Thousand Eight Hundred Fifteen
and 62/100 Dollars ($12,799,815.62)
(0% Net, 30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby requested
to enter into requirement contract
for such commodities, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of such contract of the following:

Subcontractor
DBE/MBE/FBE%

Dollar Amount

Sierra Lobo
18.80% DBE/MBE

$2,700,000.00

Resolution No. 421-03.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Vandra Brothers Construction,
Inc.,
for
the
public
improvement of Memphis Avenue
Rehabilitation
(Items
1
through
198), base bid and Alternate, for the
Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service, received on June 26, 2003, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
Nos. 906-02, 1402-2000, 1454-97 and
2368-92, passed June 3, 2002, November 13, 2000, November 24, 1997 and
December 14, 1992, upon a unit basis
for the improvement, in the aggregate amount of Five Million, Four
Thousand, Four Hundred Eighty-Four
and 76/100 Dollars ($5,004,484.76), is
hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
authorized to enter into contract for
said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. for the aforementioned public improvement hereby is
approved:

Requisition No. 129878
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Four Million
and no/100 Dollars ($4,000,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such goods and services, whether more or less than
said estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Par
Contractors Inc. for utility pole replacement for the above-mentioned
Requirement Contract is hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

MBE/FBE

Cook Paving
$1,414,000.00 (MBE) (11.05%)
Servco Products
$6,000.00 (MBE) (.05%)
Quick Employment
$25,000.00 (FBE) (.20%)
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.
Resolution No. 419-03.
By Director Mok.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by Great Lakes Construction Co., under City Contract
No. 61473, for the public improvement of demolishing, relocating and
constructing certain NASA facilities
in order to permit the construction
of Runway 5L-23R, including base
bid Alternate No. 6, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control,
authorized by Ordinance Nos. 2015-

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.
Resolution No. 420-03.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Terrace Construction Company,
Inc., 3965 Pearl Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109, for the public improvements of Construction, Replacement
and Repairing of Sidewalks, Curbs,
Driveway Aprons, Curbs Ramps and
Tree Lawns in wards 16, 18, and 19
(Assessment Program) Base Bid 136 for the Division of Engineering
and Construction, Department of
Public Service, received on the 15th
of May 2003, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 365-03, passed
May 12, 2003, upon a unit basis for
the improvements to be performed
as ordered during the period ending
one year from the date of execution
of a contract, at the unit prices set
forth in said bid, which on the basis
of the estimated work to be done
would amount to Six Hundred Seventy-Nine Thousand Eight Hundred
Sixteen Dollars ($679,816.00) is hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for said improvement,
which contract shall provide for the
initial performance of the following
work:
Requisition Number 131088,
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Six Hundred Seventy-Nine Thousand, Eight
Hundred
and
Sixteen
Dollars
($679,816.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the contractor
will perform so much of the balance
of the work as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said requirement contract, whether the same
shall be less than the total estimate
of work to be performed under said
contract or shall exceed the same by
not more than ten percent.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. for the aforementioned public improvement hereby is
approved:
Vallejo Co.
4429 State Road
Cleveland, OH 44109
(MBE) — $102,000.00 — (15%)
Rockport Construction & Materials
PO 609099
Cleveland, OH 44109
(FBE) — $34,000.00 — (5%)
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra,
Baker,
Acting
Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Direc-

1762

Tech Ready Mix
5000 Crayton Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44104
MBE (DBE) — 9.00% — $450,000
Collinwood Shale Brick & Supply Co .
12400 Broadway
Cleveland, Ohio 44125
FBE — 3.00% — $150,000
Cuyahoga Supply & Tool
5340 Perkins Road
Cleveland, Ohio 44146
FBE — 0.40% — $20,000
Cook Paving & Construction Co., Inc.
11360 Brookpark Road
Suite 212
Cleveland, Ohio 44130
6.00 % — $300,000
Trafftech
1754 East 47th Street
Cleveland, Ohio 44103
13.00% — $650,000
Osterland Company
2100 West 3rd Street
Cleveland, Ohio 44113
5.40% — $270,000
Fabrizi Trucking & Paving, Inc.
389 Columbia Road
Valley City, Ohio 44280
9.00% — $450,000
East Ohio Grass Co., Inc.
6466 Foxglove Drive
Medina, OH 44256
1.10% — $55,000
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.
Resolution No. 422-03.
By Director Draper.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on June 5, 2003, for voice

The City Record

July 23, 2003
stress analyzer, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 2167-02, passed on April 8,
2003, be and the same are hereby
rejected.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.
Resolution No. 423-03.
By Acting Director Ronayne.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of F. Buddie Contracting, Ltd. for the public improvement
of East Boulevard Fence Improvements, for Base Bid Items #1 - #4,
#5D, #6 - 15A-D and Add Alternate
Items
#AA3,
#AA4
and
#AA6
including the 10% contingency for
the Division of Research, Planning
&
Development,
Department
of
Parks,
Recreation
&
Properties,
received on May 21, 2003, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1605-98, passed on October 19, 1998,
upon a unit basis for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
Eighty Five Thousand Six Hundred
Nine and 70/100 Dollars ($85,609.70),
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Department of Parks,
Recreation & Properties is hereby
authorized to enter into contract for
said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by F.
Buddie Contracting, Ltd. for the
aforementioned public improvement
hereby is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS
AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE
Able Contracting (FBE)
$34,285.00

40.05%

Barrow Sign (FBE)
$12,900.00

15.07%

United Ready Mix (MBE)
$1,000.00

1.17%

Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.
Resolution No. 424-03.
By Acting Director Ronayne.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Hillcrest Food Service for an estimated quantity of various food
items (Bid I: 1 - 21) (Bid II: 22 - 178)
for
the
Division
of
Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, for the period of
nine (9) months beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on the 13th day of June
2003, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 170-03, passed March
3, 2003, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
Seventy Seven Thousand Eight Six
and 01/100 Dollars ($77,086.01), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is hereby requested to
enter into requirement contract for

such commodities, which shall provide for the immediate purchase as
the initial mount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 136659
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of Fifteen Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($15,000).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that Contractor will
furnish the remainder of the requirement
for
such
commodities
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.
Resolution No. 425-03.
By Acting Director Ronayne.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of APO Holdings, Inc. for the following: Replacement of five Peerless Pumps for the Division of Convention Center and Stadium, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, received on the 4th day of
June 2003, pursuant to the authority
of Ordinance No. 1981-02, passed
October 21, 2002, which on the basis
of the order quantity would amount
to $32,338.00, is hereby approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is hereby requested to
enter into contract for such items.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.
Resolution No. 426-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 137-02-004 and
137-02-005 under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 505-03
passed June 2, 2003, authorized the
sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, United Apostolic Church
of Jesus Christ has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 505-03 passed June 2,
2003, by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
United Apostolic Church of Jesus
Christ for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel Nos. 137-02-004
and 137-02-005, as described in said
Ordinance in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be

1763

107
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.
Resolution No. 427-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 118-34-049 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 555-03
passed June 2, 2003, authorized the
sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Green Grove Missionary
Baptist Church has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop said
parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 555-03 passed June 2,
2003, by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
Green
Grove
Missionary
Baptist
Church for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 118-34-049,
as described in said Ordinance in
accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of said
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.
Resolution No. 428-03.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 004-06-066 located at 2466 West
20th Street in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Donna M. Brown, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and

108
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Donna M.
Brown for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 004-06-066
located at 2466 West 20th Street, in
accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of said
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.
Resolution No. 429-03.
By Director Romero.
Whereas, on June 4, 2003, this
Board of Control adopted Resolution
No. 345-03, authorizing the Director
of Personnel and Human Resources
to enter into a professional services
contract with Integrated Consulting
Services to coordinate and operate a
comprehensive workers’ compensation program; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 345-03
omitted
reference
to
an
option
desired by the Director of Personnel
and Human Resources to renew the
one year contract term for an additional one year period; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 34503 is amended by changing the second paragraph to read as follows: be
it further resolved that the Director
of Personnel and Human Resources
hereby is requested to enter into a
written contract with Integrated
Consulting Services based on its proposal dated December 20, 2002, for a
term of one year with one (1)
option, exercisable by the Director
of Personnel and Human Resources,
to renew for a consecutive additional one-year period, for compensation
of $180,000 for the initial term and
of $240,000 for the optional term, if
elected. The contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide for furnishing of professional services as contained in the
proposal and shall contain such
additional terms and conditions as
the Director of Law deems neces-

The City Record
sary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that Board
of Control Resolution No. 345-03 is
further amended by deleting the
third paragraph.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 345-03 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Mayor Campbell, Directors
Chandra, Baker, Acting Director
Ciaccia, Director Mok, Acting Directors Wasik, Carroll, Smith, Ronayne,
Brown and Williams.
Nays: None.
Absent: Directors Hudecek Sims,
Fumich and Taylor.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, AUGUST 4, 2003
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 03-178: 2154 West 6th
Street (Ward 13)
Michael McBride, owner, c/o, Niagara Homes Ltd., agent, appeals to
construct a 19' x 47' three-story onefamily dwelling house with an
attached garage all situated on a
25' x 100' parcel located in a MultiFamily District on the west side of
West 6th Street at 2154 West 6th
Street; said construction being contrary to the Residential District
Requirements of Section 337.23(a)
where
accessory
buildings
shall

1764

July 23, 2003
have a minimum of 18" from all
property lines and 1' is proposed
and contrary to the Area Requirements of Section 355.04 where the
maximum gross floor area required
is 1,250 sq. ft. and 2,130 sq. ft. is provided and contrary to the Yards and
Courts
Requirements
of
Section
357.09(2(A) where no building shall
be erected less than 10' from a main
building on an adjoining lot and the
proposed interior side yards are 1'6 and 3'-6" for a total of 5' and interior side yards shall have an aggregate
10'
as
stated
in
Section
357.09(2)(B) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-179: 1148 East 77th
Street (Ward 7)
Willie & Charlotte Powells, owner,
appeals, to construct a 11' x 20' onestory
frame
accessory
detached
garage to the rear of an existing
two story-frame dwelling all situated on a 32' x 72' parcel located in
a Two-Family District on the west
side of East 77th Street at 1148 East
77th Street; said construction being
contrary to the Residential District
Requirements of Section 337.23(a)
where
accessory
buildings
shall
have a minimum of 18"from all property lines and 0' is proposed at the
rear and side yard and contrary to
the Yards and Courts Requirements
of Section 357.09(2(A) where no
building shall be erected less than
10' from a main building on an
adjoining lot as stated in Section
357.09(2)(A) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-180: 3845 East 93rd
Street (Ward 2)
John Papouras, owner c/o Willie
Jackson, tenant, appeals to establish
use of An existing parking lot as a
used car sales lot all situated on a
93' x 120' parcel located in a General Retail Business District on the
east side of East 93rd Street at 3845
East 93rd Street; said use being contrary to the Specific Use Requirements of Section 347.11(b) where
open sales lots must be hard surfaced
with
concrete,
asphalt,
cement, or paving and stone is provided and Section 347.11(c) where a
grading
and
drainage
plan
is
required and contrary to the Landscaping
and
Screening
Requirements of Section 352.08 thru 352.11
where a 10' transition landscaped
strip is required the lot in question
abuts a Residence District to the
east and none is provided and a
landscaping schedule is required
and contrary to the Yards and
Courts
Requirements
of
Section
357.05(b)(1) where a 1 1/2' barrier
is required at the setback building
line and none is provided and contrary to the Fence Regulations
where a 6' high fence is proposed
and fences in the front and side
street yards may not exceed 4' in
height
as
stated
in
Section
358.05(a)(2) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-181: 5806
Superior
Avenue (Ward 7)
Sam Qassem, owner, c/o, Yacub
Imead, agent, appeals to construct
and extend a parking lot on a 40'
x 113' parcel located in a Two-Family District on the south side of

July 23, 2003
Superior Avenue at 5806 Superior
Avenue; said construction and extension being contrary to the OffStreet Parking and Loading Requirements where a parking lot in
a Residential District requires the
Board of Zoning Appeals approval
as stated in Section 349.13 of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-182: 14104 San Diego
Avenue (Ward 21)
Alfred Corona, owner, appeals to
install a 4' high chain-link fence in
the front yard of a 40' x 83' parcel
located in a One-Family District on
the north side of San Diego Avenue
at 14104 San Diego Avenue; said
installation being contrary to the
Fence Regulations where a chainlink fence is proposed and in residential districts, only ornamental
fences shall be installed in actual
front yards as stated in Section
358.04(c)(1) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-183: 4022 Brooklyn
Avenue (Ward 16)
Donald Cornelius, owner, appeals
to install 127 linear feet of 6' high
wooden privacy fence and gates to
the west of a 40' x 145' corner parcel located in a Two-Family District
on the north side of Brooklyn Avenue at 4022 Brooklyn Avenue; said
installation being contrary to the
Fence
Regulations
of
Section
358.03(a) where no portion of a
fence along and parallel to a driveway within 15' of it’s intersection
with a public sidewalk or public
street shall exceed 2 1/2' in height
unless all portions above that are
75% open and a 6' high fence is proposed and fences in the actual side
street yards shall not exceed 4' in
height and shall be a minimum of
50% open if located within 4' from
the side street property line as stated in Section 358.04(a) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 03-184: 1133 Birch Lane
(Ward 15)
Patricia Arnst, owner, appeals to
install a 6' high wooden privacy
fence to the east side of an existing
deck at the rear of an approximate
61' x 201' irregular shaped parcel
located in a One-Family District on
the south side of Birch Avenue at
1133 Birch Lane; said installation
being contrary to the Residential
District Requirements where because of the 1'-7" height of the deck
the total height of fencing would be
7'-7" and 6'-6" is allowed as stated
in Section 337.23(a)(6) of the Codified Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

The City Record

109

Calendar No. 03-164: 2371 East 63rd
Street
Progressive Baptist Church appealed to transform a 40' x 160' into
a 32 space parking lot in a MultiFamily District.
Calendar No. 03-165: 2373 East 63rd
Street
Progressive Baptist Church appealed to transform a 36' x 100' parcel into a 32 space parking lot in a
Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-167: 2178 a.k.a. 2174
West 5th Street
Sutton Builders appealed to construct a 40' x 45' three-story one
family residence with a 20' x 20'
detached garage on a 25' x 100'
parcel in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-169: 2172 West
Street
Sutton Builders appealed to
struct a 20' x 59' three-story
family residence with a 20' x
detached garage on a 25' x 100'
cel in a Two-Family District.

5th
conone
20'
par-

Calendar No. 03-170: 525 Literary
Road
Sutton Builders appealed to construct a 20' x 44' three-story one
family residence with a 20' x 20'
detached garage on a 25' x 116' parcel in a Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-171: 3341 East 147th
Street
Ronald Drakeford appealed to construct a 9' x 16' “L” shaped wooden deck to the front of a single family residence in a One-Family District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 03-166: Great Lakes
Telephone LLC, 8901 Madison
Avenue
Great Lakes Telephone, LLC appealed from an order to remove an
outdoor pay phone at the property
of 8901 Madison Avenue.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 03-168: 2164 West
Street
Sutton Builders appealed to
struct a 20' x 40' three-story
family residence with a 20' x
detached garage on a 25' x 100'
cel in a Two-Family District.

5th
conone
20'
par-

The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 03-148: 2605 Detroit
Avenue postponed to August 4,
2003.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

Calendar No. 03-150: 2087 West 7th
Street postponed to August 25,
2003.

MONDAY, JULY 21, 2003

Calendar No. 03-152: 3866 Carnegie
Avenue postponed to August 4,
2003.

At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, July 21,
2003, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:

On Monday, July 21, 2003, in Executive Session:

The following appeals were Approved:

The following appeals were heard
by the Board on Monday, July 14,
2003, and said decision was ap-

1765

proved and adopted in Executive
Session on Monday, July 21, 2003:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 03-158: 2919 Chatham
Avenue
Christopher Morley appealed to
construct a 24' x 36' two-story room
addition to a one family dwelling in
a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-160: 14627 Terminal
Avenue
Thomas
Keating
appealed
to
decrease the west interior side yard
from 2.5' to 2' of an existing nonconforming 51' x 116' parcel in a
One-Family District.
Calendar No. 03-147: 3192 West 38th
Street
Peter Hauk appealed to establish
use of a 2 1/2-story one family house
as a legal two family house in a
Two-Family District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 03-163: 4097 East 139th
Street
Bennie Porter appealed to change
a two family dwelling house into a
three family dwelling house in a
Two-Family District.
On Monday, July 21, 2003, in Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
by the Board on Monday, April 28,
2003, and said decision was approved and adopted in Executive
Session on Monday, July 21, 2003:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 03-82: 1406-1410 East
49th Street
Ohio Tech College appealed to
establish use of a 140' x 175' gravel and asphalt parking lot in a
Multi-Family
District;
conditional
permission subject to timelines and
submission of code compliant plan.
Calendar No. 03-51: 10504 Helena
Avenue
Presbytery of the Western Reserve, owner, and Gale Thomas, tenant, appealed to establish use of a
two-story school building as a day
care center in a Local Retail Business District; subject to modified
plan showing relocation of dumpster.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
July 16, 2003
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:

The City Record

110
Docket A-55-03.
RE: Appeal of ACME Realty LLC,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 170 East
131st Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — FIRE CODE of the Chief
of the Division of Fire, dated April
30, 2003, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
No action this date, Docket A-5503 will be rescheduled for July 30,
2003.
*

*

*

Docket A-60-03.
RE: Appeal of Latwana Williams
C/O D-Joy Builders, Owner of the
One Story Frame Residential Property located on the premises known
as 2032 Ridgehill Road from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — RESIDENTIAL MAINTENANCE of the
Commissioner of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated May 8,
2003, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
Docket A-60-03 has been POSTPONED;
to
be
rescheduled
for
August 13, 2003.
*

*

*

Docket A-63-03.
RE: Appeal of John & Robert
Tankovich, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
6110 Grand Avenue from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — FIRE CODE of
the Chief of the Division of Fire,
dated May 14, 2003, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
No action this date, Docket A-6303 will be rescheduled for August
13, 2003.
*

*

*

Dockets A-72-03 to A-78-03.
RE: Appeal of Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority (CMHA),
Owner of the Properties located on
the premises known as 6040, 5958,
6156, 6376, 6460, 6546 Scoville Avenue
and 2516 East 66th Street from an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER
of
the
Commissioner of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated June
30, 2003, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
The Board will than take no
action this date on Docket Nos. A72-03 to A-78-03, the dockets will be
rescheduled for July 30, 2003.
*

*

*

Docket A-79-03.
RE: Appeal of 32 Clinton LLC,
Owner of the Residential Properties
located on the premises known as
3107-09 Clinton Avenue from an
ADJUDICATION ORDER #2 of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated June
30, 2003, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).

BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
required variances and permit the
four-story townhouses to be constructed without an elevator, noting
that the owners will be allowed to
select an elevator; but to grant
relief from the accessibility requirements of the Code for the four-story
elevators, noting that this applies to
all fourteen (14) units and also note
that this does not relieve the Appellant from any Federal requirements.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent: Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

Docket A-80-03.
RE: Appeal of 32 Clinton LLC,
Owner of the Residential Properties
located on the premises known as
1513-17 West 32nd Street from an
ADJUDICATION ORDER #2 of the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing, dated June
30, 2003, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
required variances and permit the
four-story townhouses to be constructed without an elevator, noting
that the owners will be allowed to
select an elevator; but to grant
relief from the accessibility requirements of the Code for the four-story
elevators, noting that this applies to
all fourteen (14) units and also note
that this does not relieve the Appellant from any Federal requirements.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

Docket A-82-03.
RE: Appeal of Atlas Savings LP,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 5644 Broadway Avenue from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the Commissioner
of the Department of Building and
Housing, dated June 20, 2003, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
No action this date, Docket A-6303 will be rescheduled for August
13, 2003.
*

*

*

EXTENSION OF TIME:
Docket A-161-02 — NCL Development Company Ltd. — 2323 Lakeside
Avenue
(aka
2203-2337
Lakeside
Avenue):
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant a six (6)
month “Extension Of Time”, with an
additional six (6) months available
with a satisfactory progress report
at the end of he first six (6) months,
in which to delay abating the violations until the new owner can
take over the premises. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.

1766

July 23, 2003
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

Docket A-162-02 — NCL Development Company Ltd. — 2427 Lakeside
Avenue
(aka
2427-2541
Lakeside
Avenue):
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant a six (6)
month “Extension Of Time”, with an
additional six (6) months available
with a satisfactory progress report
at the end of he first six (6) months,
in which to delay abating the violations until the new owner can
take over the premises. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

Docket A-163-02 — NCL Development Company Ltd. — 2343 Lakeside
Avenue
(aka
2343-2355
Lakeside
Avenue):
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant a six (6)
month “Extension Of Time”, with an
additional six (6) months available
with a satisfactory progress report
at the end of he first six (6) months,
in which to delay abating the violations until the new owner can
take over the premises. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-48-03—Rayshaun Rogers.
A-59-03—The Durable Plating Co.
A-64-03—Access Elevator Company.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC):
July 2, 2003
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Saab.
*

*

*

EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

The City Record

July 23, 2003
PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

rized by Ordinance No. 988-03,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 10, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID METING, THURSDAY, JULY 31, 2003
AT
10:00
A.M.,
DIVISION
OF
PRINTING,
1735
LAKESIDE
AVE., CLEVELAND, OH 44114.
July 23, 2003 and July 30, 2003
THURSDAY, AUGUST 7, 2003

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to
comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, AUGUST 8, 2003
Plumbing Equipment & Supplies, for
Various Divisions, Department of
Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 425-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
March 31, 2003.
THERE
WILL
BE
A
PRE-BID
MEETING ON MONDAY, JULY 28,
2003 AT 11:00 A.M., DIVISION OF
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, 4150
EAST 49TH STREET, BUILDING
#2, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
July 16, 2003 and July 23, 2003
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2003
Paper and Envelopes, for the Division of Printing and Production,
Department of Finance, as autho-

Various Traffic Signal Components,
for the Division of Traffic Engineering, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 371-03, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, March 24,
2003.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, ONTHURSDAY, JULY 31, 2003 AT 9:00 A.M.,
AT CITY HALL, CONFERENCE
ROOM 518, 601 LAKESIDE AVE.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
Labor and Materials Necessary to
Service and Maintain Elevator
and Escalator Maintenance, for
the Division of Convention Center,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1016-03, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 10, 2003.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
ON TUESDAY, JULY 29, 2003 AT 9:00 A.M.,
AT CLEVELAND CONVENTION
CENTER, 500 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THERE WILL BE A SITE VISITATION TO FOLLOW AT WEST
SIDE MARKET, 1979 WEST 25TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44113.
July 23, 2003 and July 30, 2003
FRIDAY, AUGUST 22, 2003
Two (2) Cab/Chassis with 65' Material Handling Aerial Device, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1262-02, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 17, 2002.
THERE WILL BE A PRE-BID
MEETING, MONDAY, AUGUST 11,
2003, AT 11:30 A.M., DIVISION OF
MOTOR
VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
410
EAST
49th
ST.,
BUILDING 1, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44105.
July 23, 2003 and July 30, 2003

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 822-03.
By Council Member Johnson (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Woodhill Court S.E.
Whereas, this Council; is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Woodhill Court S.E., as
hereinafter described; and

1767

111
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate the following
described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being all that portion of:
WOODHILL COURT S.E. (10.00 feet
wide) extending Westerly from the
Westerly line of Woodhill Road S.E.
(80.00 feet wide) to its intersection
with the Northerly prolongation of
the Easterly line of land conveyed
to Rose Ephriam by deed recorded
in Cuyahoga County Records and
being also known as PPN 126-37-057.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1278-03.
By Council Members Scott and
Conwell.
An emergency resolution encouraging
the
Cleveland
Municipal
School District to change the name
of Patrick Henry Track Field to
Robert
Eugene
“Bump”
Taylor
Track Field.
Whereas, Robert Eugene “Bump”
Taylor was born in Cleveland and
attended John Adams High School;
and
Whereas, “Bump” was a member
of the football team and the track
team while a student at John Adams
High School; and
Whereas, “Bump” graduated from
John Adams High School in 1959;
and
Whereas, after high school graduation, “Bump” attended Central State
University and was a member of the
track team; and
Whereas, while in college at Central State University, “Bump” was
rated 25th in the world in the 220
yard low hurdles, was the Midwest
champion in the low hurdles and the
440 yard intermediate hurdles, and
ran on the championship 440 yard
relay team; and
Whereas, in 1962 and 1963, “Bump”
was named All-Ohio and All-Midwest
in track; and
Whereas, “Bump” Taylor’s accomplishments were not limited to the
track field as “Bump” also served as
a father figure to thousands of students during the thirty-three years
he served as an educator and track
coach for the Cleveland Public
School System; and
Whereas, “Bump” helped hundreds
of students obtain college opportunities, including scholarships; and
Whereas,
as
a
track
coach,
“Bump” led Glenville track teams to
win three consecutive state track
titles in 1973, 1974, and 1975; and
Whereas, “Bump” also received
Coach of the Year Awards in 1973,
1974, 1975, and 1977; and

112
Whereas,
“Bump”
was
voted
Teacher of the Year in 1973, 1974,
1980, and 1981; and
Whereas, “Bump” was named to
the prestigious Ohio Track Coaches
Hall of Fame; and
Whereas, “Bump” retired from the
Cleveland Public School System in
1996; and
Whereas,
even
in
retirement,
“Bump” continued to serve as a role
model to the students in his community by serving as a coordinator
in the Community Resources program; and
Whereas, “Bump” Taylor, an outstanding
educator
and
devoted
coach, passed on February 10, 1998;
and
Whereas, this Council feels it
would be both appropriate and proper to honor and recognize “Bump”
Taylor by changing the name of
Patrick
Henry
Track
Field
to
Robert
Eugene
“Bump”
Taylor
Track Field” and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council hereby encourages the Cleveland Municipal School District to change the
name of Patrick Henry Track Field
to Robert Eugene “Bump” Taylor
Track Field.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit a
copy of this resolution to Barbara
Byrd
Bennett,
CEO,
Cleveland
Municipal School District.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1279-03.
By Council Member Coats (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution appointing
an
assessment
equalization
board to hear objections to estimated assessments with respect to
improving
Catalpa
Road
from
Euclid Avenue to the north end; and
Cleveland Road from St. Clair to
Taft Avenue, by making specified
improvements
along
the
public
right-of-way.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
545-02, adopted April 1, 2002, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1102-03,
passed June 10, 2003, this Council
declared the necessity of improving
Catalpa Road from Euclid Avenue to
the north end; and Cleveland Road
from St. Clair to Taft Avenue by
relaying and repairing sidewalks,
driveway
aprons,
and
curbs
encroaching upon the public rightof-way, adjustment of castings, as
necessary, and grading, seeding or
re-seeding of tree lawns, as necessary; and
Whereas, under the above resolution, as amended, the estimated
assessments for the improvement

The City Record
have been prepared and placed on
file in the office of the Clerk of this
Council; and
Whereas, notice of the passage of
the resolution, as amended, and of
the filing of the estimated assessments have been duly served on all
property owners to be assessed in
the manner provided by law; and
Whereas, written objection to the
estimated assessments may be filed
by one or more property owners; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That David J. Tarditi,
John M. Moss, and Chavtz Seals, Sr.,
three disinterested freeholders of
the City, are appointed as an assessment equalization board, and Douglas Melton, a disinterested freeholder, is appointed an alternate
member, to hear and determine all
written objections filed under the
law to the estimated assessments
heretofore filed with the Clerk of
this Council under Resolution No.
545-02, adopted April 1, 2002, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1102-03,
passed June 10, 2003, of this Council.
Section 2. That the assessment
equalization board shall meet at
10:30 a.m. on Tuesday, August 12,
2003, at Cleveland City Hall, 601
Lakeside Avenue, Room 106, for the
purposes mentioned above, and on
completion of the hearing and any
adjournments, shall report its recommendations,
including
any
changes which should be made in
the estimated assessments, to this
Council.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
notify, by certified mail, each person who has filed timely written
objection to the estimated assessments of the time and place of the
hearing of the assessment equalization board.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1280-03.
By Council Members O’Malley and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency resolution appointing
an
assessment
equalization
board to hear objections to estimated assessments with respect to
improving Woodhaven Avenue from
West 63rd Street to Ridge Road,
West
98th
Street
from
Lorain
Avenue to Walford Avenue and
West
110th
Street
from
Clifton
Boulevard to Franklin Boulevard, by
making
specified
improvements
along the public right-of-way.
Whereas, under Resolution No. 65603, adopted April 14, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1098-03, passed
June 10, 2003, this Council declared

1768

July 23, 2003
the necessity of improving Woodhaven Avenue from West 63rd Street
to Ridge Road, West 98th Street from
Lorain Avenue to Walford Avenue
and West 110th Street from Clifton
Boulevard to Franklin Boulevard by
relaying and repairing sidewalks,
driveway aprons, and curbs (including adjustments of castings and
landscaping, if necessary); and
Whereas, under the above resolution, as amended, the estimated
assessments for the improvement
have been prepared and placed on
file in the office of the Clerk of this
Council; and
Whereas, notice of the passage of
the resolution, as amended, and of
the filing of the estimated assessments have been duly served on all
property owners to be assessed in
the manner provided by law; and
Whereas, written objection to the
estimated assessments may be filed
by one or more property owners; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That David J. Tarditi,
John M. Moss, and Chavtz Seals, Sr.,
three disinterested freeholders of
the City, are appointed as an assessment equalization board, to hear
and determine all written objections
filed under the law to the estimated assessments heretofore filed with
the Clerk of this Council under Resolution No. 656-03, adopted April 14,
2003, as amended by Ordinance No.
1098-03, passed June 10, 2003 of this
Council.
Section 2. That the assessment
equalization board shall meet at 9:30
a.m. on Wednesday, August 6, 2003,
at Cleveland City Hall, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, Room 106, for the purposes
mentioned above, and on completion
of the hearing and any adjournments, shall report its recommendations, including any changes which
should be made in the estimated
assessments, to this Council.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to
notify, by certified mail, each person who has filed timely written
objection to the estimated assessments of the time and place of the
hearing of the assessment equalization board.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1282-03.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency resolution supporting proposed legislative language in
the federal SAFE-TEA Act of 2003
that guarantees an additional $300
million of infrastructure funding to
the State of Ohio.
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
recognizes the impact of quality

July 23, 2003
infrastructure on the City’s ability
to retain and attract manufacturing
firms; and
Whereas, City Council will work
with Ohio’s Congressional delegation to ensure legislative language
in the federal SAFE-TEA Act of
2003 that would guarantee an additional $300 million of infrastructure
funding to the State of Ohio; and
Whereas, specific legislative recommendations will include increasing Ohio’s rate of return from the
Federal Highway Trust Fund from
91 cents to 95 cents of every dollar
it contributes and remedying the
Ethanol Policy; and
Whereas, further, the gasoline tax
distribution
formulas
should
be
amended so that a larger portion is
directed toward infrastructure needs
in urban areas; and
Whereas,
Westside
Industrial
Retention & Expansion Network and
other industrial retention organizations will continue to strongly advocate public investment in infrastructure improvement projects in
Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby supports proposed legislative language in the federal SAFE-TEA Act
of 2003 that guarantees an additional $300 million of infrastructure
funding to the State of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to the appropriate
members of Ohio’s Congressional
delegation.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1283-03.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency resolution opposing an increase in truck size and
weight on United States highways
due to its detrimental impact on
public safety and the nation’s infrastructure and further, supporting
Senate Bill 1140, The Safe Highways and Infrastructure Preservation Act which would cap the
length of truck trailers and prevent
the operation of long double and
triple trailer trucks on the nation’s
highways.
Whereas, trucking lobbyists want
federal law to allow triple-trailer
trucks over 100 feet long and weighing up to 135,000 pounds to be able
to
drive
on
federal
highways
throughout the country; and
Whereas, bigger, heavier trucks
are harder to steer and more likely
to suffer brake failure and runaway
crashes; and
Whereas, the longer the truck, the
greater the chance of rollover and
jackknifing; and

The City Record
Whereas, in inclement weather,
the increased splash and spray of
longer, bigger trucks can temporarily blind nearby motorists; and
Whereas, at highway speeds, the
back end of a triple trailer truck
can swing back and forth, endangering traffic in adjoining lanes;
and
Whereas, in an emergency, truck
drivers have virtually no control
over a third trailer; and
Whereas, bigger, longer trucks
will
worsen
an
already
severe
national problem with deteriorating,
crowded highways; and
Whereas, bigger trucks will exacerbate the nation’s bridge problem
— 30% of the nation’s bridges are
structurally deficient or functionally obsolete; and
Whereas, raising the maximum
truck weight limit would result in
increased pavement damage per
mile of truck traffic and would
encourage overweight operations at
even higher and more damaging levels; and
Whereas, according to the United
States Department of Transportation, the damage caused by heavier
trucks is not covered by the taxes
that trucking companies currently
pay — a typical trailer truck pays
only 70% of its federal highway
costs; U.S. taxpayers make up the
difference and will have to pay for
every single mile traveled by a bigger truck; and,
Whereas, a national poll in February, 2003 shows that 89% of likely voters oppose allowing triple
trailer truck operations; and
Whereas, Senate Bill 1140, “The
Safe Highways and Infrastructure
Preservation Act” (SHIPA) would
extend
the
80,000
pound
truck
weight
limit
on
Interstates
to
include the 156,000 miles of federal
aid highways; and
Whereas, further, SHIPA would
cap the length of truck trailers at
53 feet, extend the current freeze of
longer combination vehicles — long
double and triple trailer trucks — to
the entire National Highway System, and close loopholes and provide
guidelines
to
strengthen
weight
enforcement; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby opposes an increase in truck size
and weight on United States highways due to its detrimental impact
on public safety and the nation’s
infrastructure
and
further,
this
Council supports Senate Bill 1140,
The Safe Highways and Infrastructure Preservation Act which would
cap the length of truck trailers and
prevent the operation of long double
and triple trailer trucks on the
nation’s highways
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to the appropriate
members of Ohio’s Congressional
delegation.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

1769

113
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1284-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 8301 Cedar Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 91232720002 owned
by 2758 East 79th Street Cafe, Inc.,
DBA Bee Hive Cafe, 8301 Cedar
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

114
Res. No. 1285-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 2623 Woodhill Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4155619 owned by Sylvia, Inc., DBA
Safeway Food, 2623 Woodhill Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1286-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2249 East 105th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal

The City Record
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7644062 owned by Jerry
Saa, DBA P N G Supermarket, 2249
East 105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44106, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1287-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 9209 Quincy Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disre-

1770

July 23, 2003
gard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6416769 owned by 9209
Quincy, Inc., DBA Sammor Corner,
9209 Quincy Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44106, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1288-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 7902-04 Central Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,

July 23, 2003
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
8876756
owned
by
Dionne
Mae
Thomas, DBA Josephine’s Lounge,
7902-04 Central Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44104, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1289-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 8716 Cedar Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9619191-0005 owned by

The City Record
Willa G., Inc., DBA Gene’s Corner
Beverage, 8716 Cedar Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1290-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 620 Frankfort
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2289880 owned by Down
River Specialities, Inc., DBA Hydra
Nite Club, 620 Frankfort Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.

1771

115
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1291-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 3004
St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8381750
owned by Sorma Company, Inc.,
DBA Bada Bing, 3004 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is

116
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1292-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 1616 West 25th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 3568588 owned by Ma
Sabeha, Inc., DBA Pickwick, 1616
West 25th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

The City Record
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1293-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 5238 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 96933968 owned by
Wing San, Inc., DBA Golden House
Restaurant, 5238 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1772

July 23, 2003
Res. No. 1294-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 6710 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2119558 owned by Edward Dial, DBA Dawn’s Market &
Deli, 6710 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1295-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 14045 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

July 23, 2003
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6186509 owned by Joyce
Morton, DBA Bill’s Lounge, 14045 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1296-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 16809-11-13 Euclid
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operat-

The City Record
ed his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6605626-0025 owned by
Our Place, Inc., 16809-11-13 Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1297-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution §objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 16601 Euclid
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preserva-

1773

117
tion of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 4101794 owned by
Hymie Enterprises, Inc., 16601 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44112,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1298-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 18310
Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation
may
object
to
the
renewal of a permit based upon
legal grounds as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

118
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2566502
owned by Euclid Green Lanes, Inc.,
18310
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44112, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1299-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 831 East 140th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
3700511 owned by East 140th Food &
Beverage, 831 East 140th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1300-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 662 East 140th
Street, 1st Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8200013 owned by 662
East 140th Street, Inc., DBA Four M
Food Market, 662 East 140th Street,
1st Floor and Basement, Cleveland,
Ohio 44110, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Direc-

1774

July 23, 2003
tor’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1301-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 16420 Euclid Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
9624545
owned
by
Williams & Williams Enterprises,
Inc., DBA Euclid Deli, 16420 Euclid
Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44112, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

July 23, 2003
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1302-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 14625-27 Woodworth Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 46188550005 owned by
Khalil, Inc., DBA Woodworth Market,
14625-27
Woodworth
Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44112, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

The City Record
Res. No. 1303-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 Liquor
Permit at 17234 Euclid Avenue, 1st
Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7094927 owned by Progroc, Inc., DBA
Our
Neighborhood
Store,
17234
Euclid Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44112, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1304-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 13933 St.
Clair Avenue, 1st Floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

1775

119
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 9606930 owned by
Wilchris,
Inc.,
DBA
Christine’s
Lounge, 13933 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1305-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 18029
Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operat-

120
ed his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4403791 owned by
JRH, Inc., DBA Johnny & Co., 18029
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44112, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1306-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 625 East 140th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preserva-

The City Record
tion of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code, objections
to
renewal of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6081178 owned by Moes
Stop One, Inc, 625 East 140th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1307-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 11625 Superior
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1776

July 23, 2003
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1944364 owned by Dave’s
Drive Thru, Inc., 11625 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1308-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 10509 Ashbury
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6548639 owned by 10509
Ashbury, Inc., DBA First Choice
Beverage, 10509 Ashbury Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in

July 23, 2003
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga
County,
and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1309-03.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4075 Rocky River
Drive.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7178802 owned by Raja
International, Inc., DBA 7-Eleven
Food Store, #56, 4075 Rocky River
Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two

The City Record
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1310-03.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 Liquor
Permit at 15520 Munn Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
84189841820
owned
by
Speedway
Super America, LLC, DBA Speedway
#9338, 15520 Munn Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44111, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

1777

121
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1311-03.
By Council Member Dolan.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 16800
Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit,
Permit
No.
4465647-0001
owned by Kamm’s Corner Tavern,
DBA Kilbane’s Pub, 16800 Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga
County,
and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

122
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1312-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3314
Broadview Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the
renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1577821
owned by Club 3 C, DBA Club 3 C,
3314 Broadview Road, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

The City Record
Res. No. 1313-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 3742 Fulton Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7677734 owned by Sam L. Saker,
DBA Fulton & Denison Sunoco, 3742
Fulton Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1314-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3801-03
Denison Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

1778

July 23, 2003
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4817939 owned by
Kovach-Ford,
Inc.,
DBA
Pinky’s
Cafe, 3801-03 Denison Avenue, 1st
Floor and Basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1315-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 481822 Memphis Avenue and Patio.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operat-

July 23, 2003
ed his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 3845983
owned by H I M, Inc., DBA Memphis
Tavern, 4818-22 Memphis Avenue
and Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44144,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1316-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 5200 Memphis
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation
may
object
to
the
renewal of a permit based upon
legal grounds as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7315819 owned by Revenue, Inc., 5200 Memphis Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44144, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1317-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 2317 Denison Avenue, 1st Floor Front and
Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,

1779

123
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 2066426 owned by
Denison Executive Club, Inc., DBA
Denison Club, 2317 Denison Avenue,
1st
Floor
Front
and
Basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1318-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor
Permit
at
2101
Denison
Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
4483278
owned
by
Karams Corp., DBA Johnny’s Food

124
Market, 2101 Denison Avenue, 1st
Floor and Basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1319-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 4301 State Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation
may
object
to
the
renewal of a permit based upon
legal grounds as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0347602 owned by B C G, Inc., DBA
Bus Stop Inn, 4301 State Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies

The City Record
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1320-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X and
D3 Liquor Permit at 4497 Broadview
Road, 1st Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X and D3 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6472751 owned by Nu
Bar, Inc., DBA Vanta’s Lounge, 4497
Broadview Road, 1st Floor and
Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and

1780

July 23, 2003
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1321-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 9621 Mt. Auburn
Road, 1st Floor and Basement.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 24034660005, owned by
East 97th Food Market, Inc., DBA
Eastside Market, 9621 Mt. Auburn
Road,
1st
Floor
and
Basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

July 23, 2003
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1322-03.
By Council Member.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2 and
D6 Liquor Permit at 13108 Buckeye
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation
may
object
to
the
renewal of a permit based upon
legal grounds as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section
4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the
renewal of a C1, C2 andD6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 6548662, owned
by 13108 Buckeye, Inc., DBA Buckeye Beverage, 13108 Buckeye Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

The City Record
Res. No. 1323-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 13009 Buckeye
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2, C2X andD6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1072886, owned by
Buckeye Petroleum, Inc., DBA Buckeye East Mini Mart, 13009 Buckeye
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1324-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 11312 Buckeye
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

1781

125
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 7742555, owned by Gene
A. Sardon, DBA Gene’s Corner Beverage Store #1, 11312 Buckeye Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1325-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2742 Van Aken
Boulevard.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and

126
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9198474, owned by Van
Aken Market, Inc., DBA Market on
the Square, 2742 Van Aken Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1326-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3019 East 116th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
1896113, owned by Albert Daily,
DBA Daily’s Food Mart, 3019 East
116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1327-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor
Permit
at
12916
Forest
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,

1782

July 23, 2003
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 87731650005, owned by T
& J Beverage Co., DBA T & J Beverage Store, 12916 Forest Avenue,
1st Floor and Basement, Cleveland,
Ohio 44120, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1328-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 3029 Woodhilll
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1745652, owned by Corlyn, Inc., DBA V I P Lounge, 3029
Woodhill Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, and requests the Director of

July 23, 2003
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1329-03.
By Council Member O’Malley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 6625 Denison Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 0769039 owned by
Blum, Inc., DBA S & J Pub, 6625
Denison Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the

The City Record
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1330-03.
By Council Member O’Malley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3837 Ridge Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
6571521-0005 owned by O’Reilly’s
Niteclub, DBA None on File, 3837
Ridge Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44144,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

1783

127
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1331-03.
By Council Member O’Malley.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 2109 Tate
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 1152290 owned by
TNT Lounge Bar, Inc., DBA Butts
Bar & Grill, Inc., 2109 Tate Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

128
Res. No. 1332-03.
By Council Member O’Malley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 6301 Denison Avenue, 1st
Floor and Basement and repealing
Resolution No. 569-03, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit to 6301 Denison
Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement by
Resolution No. 569-03 adopted by the
Council on March 31, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon and pursuant to a
cooperation
agreement
by
and
through City Council Representative, Michael C. OíMalley and Applicant, Leslie J. Cross, President of
Cross
Entertainment,
Inc.,
DBA
Great Lakes Tavern, 6301 Denison
Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 18270480005, a copy of which
is in the file for this address with
the City Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A
Liquor
Permit
to
6301
Denison
Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 569-03, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1333-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 17438 St.
Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure pro-

The City Record
viding for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code, objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8320927, owned
by Smoht Corporation, 17438 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1334-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 397
East 156th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,

1784

July 23, 2003
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 5819446,
owned by Melbourne Men of Business, Inc., DBA Cafe Bluebird, 397
East 156th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1335-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 18414-16 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7501515, owned by Romito Enterprises,
Inc.,
18414-16
St.
Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said appli-

July 23, 2003
cation in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1336-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 15638 Holmes
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8780685, owned by Tamara Tait, DBA R & T Resale & Variety, 15638 Holmes Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the

The City Record
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

Res. No. 1337-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D6 Liquor Permit at 16101
Arcade Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 0254173, owned by
Walter H. Scott, DBA Arcade Bar,
16101 Arcade Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44110, and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.

1785

129
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1338-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 13900 Kinsman Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0437070 owned by Baramok, Inc.,
DBA Citgo Gas Station, 13900 Kinsman Road and Gas Pumps, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

130
Res. No. 1339-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 11902 Kinsman
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor
permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 0390153-0010 owned by
King E. Baker, DBA B & B Drive
Thru Beverage and Food Mart, 11902
Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1340-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 15315 Bartlett Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

The City Record
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 2714240 owned by 15315
Bartlett, Inc., DBA Johnson’s Deli,
15315 Bartlett Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44120, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1341-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 13401 Kinsman Avenue,
1st Floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a

1786

July 23, 2003
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0296859 owned by Ashishi, Inc., DBA
Ranie Rood Market, 13401 Kinsman
Avenue, 1st Floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1342-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 15310 Kinsman
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation

July 23, 2003
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6208815 owned by Mr VS
Convenience, Inc., DBA Mr VS Convenience Store, 15310 Kinsman Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1343-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 12301-03 Imperial
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 3820139 owned by Hiam
A. Inc., 12301-03 Imperial Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1344-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 14005 Benwood
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit
No.
9446170
owned
by
WDAD, Inc., DBA Shortcut Deli &
Beverage, 14005 Benwood Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44128, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to
set a hearing for said application

1787

131
in accordance with provisions of
Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1345-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3600 East 116th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9115172 owned by Tuz,
Inc., 3600 East 116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the

132
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1346-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3580 East 116th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 1433448 owned by Chillie’s
Beverage Co., DBA Chillie’s Beverage, 3580 East 116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1347-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 3918 East 140th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8917046 owned by 3918
Co., DBA East 140th Street Market,
3918 East 140th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44128, and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1788

July 23, 2003
Res. No. 1348-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3695-97
East 131st Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 9179589 owned by
VCH, Inc., DBA Side by Side Bar &
Delicatessen,
3695-97
East
131st
Street, 1st Floor and Basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga
County,
and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1349-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 14510 Kinsman Avenue.

July 23, 2003
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
6549670 owned by 14510, Inc., DBA
Kinsman Sunoco, 14510 Kinsman
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1350-03.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 6520
Lorain Avenue, 1st Floor.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)

The City Record
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections
to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8200146, owned
by 6520 Tavern, Inc., DBA Jo Jo’s,
6520 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44111, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1351-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3065-77
East 123rd Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or

1789

133
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised
Code,
objections to
renewal
of
liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4580028, owned
by Kendrick Lounge, Inc., DBA Club
123, 3065-77 East 123rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1373-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the stock transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
to 12916 Forest Avenue, 1st Floor
and Basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a stock
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to T & J Beverage Co., DBA T & J Beverage Store,
12916 Forest Avenue, 1st Floor and
Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
Permanent Number 87731650005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and

134
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the stock
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to T & J Beverage Co., DBA T & J Beverage Store,
12916 Forest Avenue, 1st Floor and
Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
Permanent Number 87731650005; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1374-03.
By Council Member Jones.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New D3A
Liquor Permit at 4209 East 131st
Street and repealing Resolution No.
1131-03, objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New D3A Liquor Permit to 4209
East 131st Street by Resolution No.
1131-03 adopted by the Council on
June 9, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
D3A Liquor Permit to Winston
Howse, Inc., DBA Winston’s Place,
1st Floor and Basement, 4209 East
131st Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 9700692, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 2402-02, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1427-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution consenting to the remission of certain
unpaid or delinquent taxes, penalties or interest charged against certain real property located in the
City of Cleveland.
Whereas, Ohio Sub. H.B. No. 493
allows for the remission of unpaid
or delinquent taxes, penalties or
interest charged against real property, including those that became a
lien before the applicant acquired
title to the property or before the
property was first used for an
exempt purpose; and
Whereas, the Tax Commissioner
may remit such taxes, penalties and
interest only with the consent of the
board of education of the city, local
or exempted village school district
in which the property is located, and
with the consent of the taxing
authority of every other subdivision
to which such taxes, penalties or
interest are owed; and
Whereas, Courts of Praise, Inc.
failed to file for property tax exemptions when it acquired its property
located in Cleveland, Ohio (Permanent Parcel Nos. 116-14-060, 116-14049, 116-10-013); and
Whereas, Courts of Praise, Inc.
owes property taxes for 1995, 1996
and 1997 on Permanent Parcel Nos.
116-14-049 and 116-14-060 and owes
property taxes for 2000 on Permanent Parcel No. 116-10-013, in a total
amount of $3,408.51; and
Whereas, Courts of Praise, Inc.
has applied to the Tax Commissioner to remit the above stated delinquent taxes, penalties or interest for
the above stated permanent parcel
numbers; and
Whereas, Courts of Praise, Inc.
has requested that the City of Cleveland consent to the remission of said
delinquent taxes, penalties or interest charged against its property,
Permanent Parcel Nos. 116-14-049,
116-14-060 and 116-10-013; and
Whereas, it is the understanding
of this Council that the properties

1790

July 23, 2003
located at the above mentioned parcel numbers are used for worships
services, a community service center
and parking for the church and community service center; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City hereby consents to the remission of certain unpaid or delinquent
taxes, penalties or interest charged
against Permanent Parcel Nos. 11614-049, 116-14-060 and 116-10-013 in
the amount of $3,408.51.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Res. No. 1428-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit at 10202 Sophia
Avenue, 1st Floor and repealing
Resolution No. 716-03, objecting to
said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at
10202 Sophia Avenue, 1st Floor by
Resolution No. 716-03 adopted by the
Council on April 28, 2003; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit
based upon and pursuant to a cooperation agreement by and through
City Council Representative, Kenneth L. Johnson and Applicant,
Anita P. Davidson, DBA Smokey’s,
10202 Sophia Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
1946870, a copy of which is in the
file for this address with the City
Law Department; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 10202
Sophia Avenue be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 716-03, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 502-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 2065 East 36th Street
and 3606 Prospect Avenue to Hallee,
Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 103-16-042
and 103-16-043, as more fully described below, to Hallee, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-16-042
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 148.50 feet of Sublot No.
165 and in H.P. Weddell’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten Acre
Lots Nos. 64, 65 and 66, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 50 feet front on
the Southerly side of Prospect Avenue, S.E. (formerly Prospect Street)
and extending back of equal width
148.50 feet along the Easterly line
of East 36th Street (formerly Hayward Street) as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 103-16-043
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 21.50 feet of the Northerly
170 feet of Sublot No. 165 in H.P.
Wedell’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 64, 65 and
66, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 4 of Maps, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County Records. Said part of
Sublot No. 165 has a frontage of
21.50 feet on the Easterly side of
East 36th Street, and extends back
of equal width 50 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to an easement to Cleveland Trust Company, its successors
and assigns, for delivery and maintenance purposes over and across

The City Record
and upon that portion of the above
described premises which is described as follows: Situated in the
City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio, and known
as being the Southerly 2 feet of the
Northerly 150.50 feet of Sublot No.
165 in H.P. Wedell’s Subdivision of
part of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos.
64, 65 and 66, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps,
Page
24
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Said part of Sublot No. 165
has a frontage of 2 feet on the Easterly side of East 36th Street, and
extends back of equal width 50 feet,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
And, situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State
of Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 2 feet of the Northerly
148.50 feet of Sublot No. 165 in H.P.
Wedell’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 64, 65 and
66 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 4 of Maps, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County Records. Said part of
Sublot No. 165 has a frontage of 2
feet on the Easterly side of East
36th Street and extends back of
equal width 50 feet, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Further subject to the easements
set forth in the deed recorded in Volume 4923, Page 127 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1791

135
Ord. No. 597-03.
By Council Members Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to conduct a feasibility
study and design improvements to
the Water Pollution Control building, including the preparation of a
master
plan;
determining
the
method
of
making
the
public
improvement of constructing the
improvements; and authorizing the
director to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to conduct a feasibility study and
design improvements to the Water
Pollution Control building, including
the preparation of a master plan (the
“Improvement”).
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of constructing
the improvements to the Water Pollution Control building as designed
under this ordinance by one or more
contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding on
a unit basis for the Improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the Improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis.
Section 4. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund No. 54 SF 001, Request No.
109391.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency mea-

136
sure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 642-03.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Coats, Cimperman and Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating
and replacing the East 117th Street
and St. Clair Avenue area sewer system, which may include but not be
limited to installing manholes and
catch basins, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the East 117th
Street and St. Clair Avenue area
sewer system, which may include
but not be limited to installing manholes and catch basins, for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
one or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding on
a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis. All contracts entered
into under this ordinance shall contain the MBE, FBE, and workforce
goals in effect at the time the contracts were bid.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 54 SF 001, Request No. 109463.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

The City Record
Ord. No. 643-03.
By Council Members O’Malley,
Coats and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating
and replacing the Archmere Avenue
area sewer system, which may include but not be limited to installing
manholes and catch basins, and
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating
and replacing the Archmere Avenue
area
sewer
system,
which
may
include
but
not
be
limited
to
installing manholes and catch basins,
for the Division of Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly
let to the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
on a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding on a unit basis for
the improvement, provided, however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract on a unit basis. All contracts entered into under this ordinance shall contain the MBE, FBE,
and workforce goals in effect at the
time the contracts were bid.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 54 SF 001, Request No. 109464.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 644-03.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Lewis, Scott, Conwell, Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating
and replacing the Superior Avenue
area sewer system, which may include but not be limited to installing
manholes and catch basins, and
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.

1792

July 23, 2003
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the Superior
Avenue area sewer system, which
may include but not be limited to
installing
manholes
and
catch
basins, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for
the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding on
a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis. All contracts entered
into under this ordinance shall contain the MBE, FBE, and workforce
goals in effect at the time the contracts were bid.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 54 SF 001, Request No. 109465.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 645-03.
By Council Members Lewis, Jackson, Rybka, Coats and Cimperman
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the East 71st
Street area sewer system, which
may include but not be limited to
installing
manholes
and
catch
basins, and authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into one
or more public improvement contracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleve-

July 23, 2003
land, it is determined to make the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the East 71st
Street area sewer system, which
may include but not be limited to
installing
manholes
and
catch
basins, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for
the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding on
a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis. All contracts entered
into under this ordinance shall contain the MBE, FBE, and workforce
goals in effect at the time the contracts were bid.
Section 3. That the cost of the
improvement authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 54 SF 001, Request No. 109466.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 652-03.
By Council Members Polensek,
Gordon, Cimperman and Jackson
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to execute Release of
Deed Restrictions for three properties located on East 185th Street.
Whereas, on May 29, 1964, a warranty deed was recorded transferring property from John and Mary
Jalen to the Cook Coffee Company;
and
Whereas, on June 8, 1964, a warranty deed was recorded transferring property from Joseph and Mary
Turk to the Cook Coffee Company;
and
Whereas, on May 28, 1964, a warranty deed was recorded transferring property from Mary Beauchamp
to the Cook Coffee Company; and
Whereas, all of the above warranty deeds contain a restrictive
covenant for the benefit of the City
of
Cleveland
limiting
the
total
square footage of building permitted; and
Whereas, this restrictive covenant
no longer applies to or benefits the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the City wishes to release the deed restrictions in order
to allow Tops Supermarkets to re-

The City Record
solve title issues and consolidate the
properties; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and the Mayor
shall execute on behalf of the City
of Cleveland a Release of Deed
Restrictions for the three properties
located on East 185th Street, and
known as Parcel Nos. 114-19-010, 11419-012 through 114-19-016, in order to
remove the restrictive covenant on
the warranty deeds which no longer
apply to or benefit the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 690-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 117th Street to
Ali Development Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 110-02-082,
as more fully described below, to Ali
Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-02-082
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Sublot No. 58 in Lowris Brother’s
Homedale Allotment of part of Orig-

1793

137
inal One Hundred Acre Lot No. 363,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 28 of Maps, Page 12 of Cuyahoga County Records and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Westerly line of East 117th Street (formerly Ellen Avenue) 100 feet Southerly from the intersection of said
Westerly line of East 117th Street
with the Southerly line of St. Clair
Avenue; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of East 117th Street,
80.76 feet to the Southeasterly corner of Sublot No. 58; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of
Sublot No. 58, 93.75 feet; thence
Northerly and parallel with the
Westerly line of East 117th Street,
30 feet; thence Easterly and parallel with the Southerly line of Sublot
No. 58, 31.25 feet; thence Northerly
and parallel with the Westerly line
of East 117th Street, 50.76 feet;
thence Easterly at right angles to
the Westerly line of East 117th
Street, 62.5 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That the deed shall contain a provision that any use of the
property shall comply with zoning
and that the site plan for any construction on the property shall, prior
to commencement of construction, be
approved by the Cleveland City
Planning Commission.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

138
Ord. No. 783-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Superior Avenue to
Ohio Sauce Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 120-12-004,
as more fully described below, to
Ohio Sauce Corporation.

The City Record
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 120-12-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
56 in Superior Land Company’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 388, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 38
of Maps, Page 7 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40 feet front
on the Southerly side of Superior
Avenue, N.E. and extending back
between parallel lines 105 feet to
the Northerly side of Thompson
Avenue, N.E., as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Subject to restrictions recited in
Volume 1363, Page 305 of Cuyahoga
County Records filed November 28,
1911.
Subject to option agreement recited in Volume 88-6117, Page 46 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
filed
November 22, 1988.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as

July 23, 2003
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 818-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on the south side of Shawnee Avenue near the intersection of
Neff Road and East 185th Street to a Local Retail Use District (Map Change No. 2077, Sheet No. 7).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Centerline of Shawnee Avenue N.E. (60 feet wide) at its Intersection with the Northerly Prolongation of the Westerly Line of P.P.N. 114-19-025 Conveyed to Tops Markets, LLC by Deed Dated Feb. 10, 2003,
Recorded in AFN: 200302101594 of the Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along the Centerline of said Shawnee Ave., 581.60 Feet to its Intersection with the Northerly
Prolongation of the Easterly Line of P.P.N. 114-20-092 Conveyed to Tops Markets, LLC by Deed Dated Feb. 19,
2003, Recorded in AFN: 200302190754 of the Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southerly along the said Northerly Prolongation and Easterly Line of said P.P.N. 114-20-092, 420.60 Feet
to the Southeast Corner Thereof and its Intersection with the Northerly Line of a 3.8597 Acre Parcel of Land as
shown by the Recorded Consolidation Plat For the Slovene Home For The Aged, Dated Feb. 20, 1996 in Volume
276, Page 94 of the Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly 310.45 Feet and Southwesterly 61.89 Feet, along the said Northerly Line to the most Southwesterly Corner of Sublot No. 1 in the Proposed Michael and Margaret Cone’s Subdivision;
Thence Northerly along the Westerly Line of said Sublot No. 1, 304.29 Feet to the most Northeasterly Corner
of Sublot No. 17 in the said Proposed Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along the most Northerly Line of said Sublot No. 17, 223 Feet to the Southwesterly Corner of
P.P.N. 114-19-025 Aforesaid;
Thence Northerly along the Westerly Line of said P.P.N. 114-19-025 and its Northerly Prolongation, 155 Feet to
the Centerline of Shawnee Ave. Aforesaid and the Place of Beginning;
and as outlined and shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Use District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2077, Sheet No. 7, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed
by law.

1794

July 23, 2003

The City Record

139

Sketch showing change of zoning of property on the south of Shawnee Avenue near the intersection of Neff Road
and East 185th Street to a Local Retail Use District (Map Change No. 2077, Sheet No. 7).

Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective August 25, 2003.

1795

140

The City Record

July 23, 2003

Ord. No. 819-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on the south side of St. Clair Avenue between East 165th Street
and East 166th Street to a Semi-Industry Use District (Map Change No. 2076, Sheet No. 7).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the centerline of St. Clair Avenue N.E. (60 feet wide) at its intersection with the centerline of
East 165th St. (40 feet wide);
Thence Southeasterly along the centerline of said East 165th Street to its intersection with the Southwesterly
prolongation of the Northerly line of Sublot number 18 in The Gund Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 27 page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northeasterly along the Southwesterly prolongation and the Northerly line of said Sublot number 18 to
the Easterly line of Original Euclid Township Tract Number 16;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Tract 16 to its intersection with the Northerly line of Sublot Number 16 in the Dorrance Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 29, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Thence Easterly along the Northerly line of said Sublot number 16 and its Easterly prolongation to the centerline of East 166th Street (50 feet Wide);
Thence Northerly and Northwesterly along the centerline of said East 166th Street to its intersection with the
centerline of St. Clair Avenue as aforesaid;
Thence Southwesterly along the centerline of said St. Clair Avenue to the place of beginning.
and as outlined and shaded on the attached map is changed to a Semi-Industry District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2076, Sheet No. 7, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Sketch showing change of zoning of property on the south side of St. Clair Avenue between East 165th Street
and East 166th Street to a Semi-Industry Use District (Map Change No. 2076, Sheet No. 7)

Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective August 25, 2003.

1796

July 23, 2003

The City Record

141

Ord. No. 820-03.
By Council Member Polensek.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on the south side of Lakeshore Boulevard between East 171st
Street and East 174th Street to One-Family Residential Use District and to an “A” Area District (Map Change No.
2075, Sheet No. 7).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the centerline of Lake Shore Boulevard Northeast (80 feet wide) at its intersection with the centerline of East 171 Street (56 feet Wide);
Thence Southerly along the centerline of said East 171 Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line of a parcel of land which is 40 feet distant by rectangular measurement from the
Southerly line of Sublot Numbers 33 and 32 in the Boulevard Allotment as shown by the recorded plat in Volume
80, Page 1 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Easterly along the Westerly prolongation and said Northerly line to its intersection with the Westerly
line of Sublot number 31 in said Boulevard Allotment;
Thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot number 31 to the Southwesterly corner thereof;
Thence Easterly along the Southerly line of Sublot numbers 31 and 30 in said Subdivision to the Southeasterly corner of said Sublot number 30;
Thence Northerly along the Easterly line of said Sublot number 30 about 40 feet to a point;
Thence Easterly along the Northerly line of a parcel of land which is parallel with and 40 feet distant from
the Southerly line of Sublot numbers 29 and 28 in the Boulevard Allotment as aforesaid and its Easterly prolongation to the centerline of East 174th Street (60feet wide);
Thence Northerly along the centerline of said E. 174th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Lakeshore
Boulevard as aforesaid;
Thence Westerly along the centerline of said Lake Shore Boulevard to the place of beginning;
and as outlined and shaded on the attached map is changed to a One-Family
Residential District and an “A” Area District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2075, Sheet No. 7, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Sketch showing change in zoning of parcels on the south side of Lake Shore Boulevard between East 171st Street
and East 174th Street to One-Family Residential (Map Change No. 2075, Sheet No. 7).

Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective August 25, 2003.

1797

142

The City Record

July 23, 2003

Ord. No. 893-03.
By Council Members Sweeney, Coats and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into an agreement with the Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority for the Euclid Corridor Transportation Project.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland controls and maintains the public rights-of-way on behalf of its citizens and
the traveling public; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland is committed to improving the public rights-of-way for its citizens and the traveling public, including the quality and availability of public transit services; and
Whereas, the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (“GCRTA”) is a regional transit authority operating in the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, GCRTA is a grant recipient from the Federal Transit Administration (“FTA”) for the purpose of
administering and implementing the Euclid Corridor Transportation Project (“ECTP”); and
Whereas, the ECTP will further the City of Cleveland’s commitment to improving the public rights-of-way on
Euclid Avenue and downtown Cleveland through Euclid Avenue Bus Rapid Transit improvements, Transit Zone
improvements, and construction of an East Side Transit Center; and
Whereas, the successful implementation of the ECTP will require modifications to public rights-of-way and the
City of Cleveland’s participation with GCRTA in the coordination, development, and funding of the ECTP; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland desires to enter into an agreement with GCRTA to determine the respective
rights and responsibilities of the City of Cleveland and GCRTA for the implementation and funding of the ECTP;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into an agreement with the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (“GRCTA”) for the Euclid Corridor Transportation Project substantially in the
form as follows:
RESTATED
GENERAL AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE GREATER CLEVELAND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY
AND
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND
FOR
THE EUCLID CORRIDOR TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
This General Agreement, (the “Agreement”) is made and entered into this ___ day of _____________2003, by and
between the GREATER CLEVELAND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY (“GCRTA”), a regional transit authority and political subdivision of the State of Ohio, pursuant to Board Resolution No. 2000-126 and Board Resolution No.________, and the CITY OF CLEVELAND (“CITY”), a municipal corporation of the State of Ohio, through
its Mayor, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1102-A-2000, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland
on September 11, 2000, and Ord. No.______________ passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland on
___________________ 2003.
RECITALS
The Euclid Corridor Transportation Project (“ECTP”) is comprised of the following elements:
• Euclid Avenue Bus Rapid Transit (“BRT”) Improvements
• Transit Zone Improvements
• East Side Transit Center (“ESTC”)
GCRTA, as the Federal Transit Administration (“FTA”) grant recipient for ECTP, will serve as the lead agency
responsible for administering the grant and reporting to FTA; and
The successful implementation of ECTP will require significant modifications to the public rights-of-way controlled by CITY, and CITY’s participation in the coordination and development of this project is imperative to
insure success; and
The ECTP has a $213 million budget and CITY and GCRTA are both committed to meeting that budget. The
CITY, in cooperation with the Ohio Department of Transportation (“ODOT”), has completed the design and construction of an integrated downtown signal system with which the ECTP shall be compatible in design and operation to the extent practicable; and
It is the intent of this Agreement to establish general guidelines between GCRTA and CITY with respect to
the financing, duties, responsibilities, and rights of each party during the design, construction, and operational
phases of ECTP, in order that ECTP may be defined, designed, constructed, operated, and maintained within the
City of Cleveland; and
The construction and operation of ECTP as contemplated will contribute directly and continuously to the economy of Greater Cleveland and its surrounding region to the general benefit of its citizens and to the welfare of
the State of Ohio and its citizens; and
GCRTA and CITY anticipate that the operation of ECTP will achieve travel-time savings and more frequent
service, and GCRTA and CITY acknowledge and agree that such travel-time savings and more frequent service
are essential ingredients in the ECTP’s benefits to the CITY. Both parties agree to cooperate and use their best
efforts to permanently maintain such travel time savings and service levels; and
CITY and GCRTA understand that certain phases of the ECTP will extend beyond the boundaries of the City
of Cleveland and that such extensions are essential to the continuity and integrity of the ECTP; and
Under the authority of Section 3, Article XVIII of the Ohio Constitution, as well as Ohio Revised Code Section

1798

July 23, 2003

The City Record

143

723.01, the CITY has the power to regulate the use of the rights-of-way of Euclid Avenue, West 3rd Street, East
12th Street, East 13th Street, East 17th Street, East 18th Street, East 21st Street, East 22nd Street, Prospect Avenue,
Chester Avenue, Superior Avenue, and St. Clair Avenue; and
Under the authority referred to in the preceding paragraph, the Council of the CITY has determined that the
conveyance by CITY to GCRTA of an encroachment permit for the ECTP serves a public purpose fully consistent with the terms under which the rights-of-ways are dedicated to public use; and
The CITY’s willingness to support the ECTP is in part motivated by GCRTA’s continuing commitment to the
operation of the community circulators and cross-town bus routes to meet the needs of its ridership.
Now, therefore, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, the parties to this Agreement agree
as follows:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
“AGREEMENT” shall mean this Agreement dated ______________, 2003, which supersedes and replaces the agreement between the parties dated September 11, 2000.
“BETTERMENT” shall mean an improved or upgraded state or condition that exceeds current design standards
in effect at the time of this Agreement, and shall consider cost, function, capacity, durability, obsolescence and
efficiency.
“CENTER MEDIAN BUS STATION” shall mean the paved area between and behind the roadway median curbs
dedicated to the specific purpose of a transit system boarding platform, and shall also include the bus shelter
structures and furniture, transit facilities, equipment, and other transit-specific elements dedicated to the use of
the GCRTA and its customers, and excludes all crosswalk and intersection areas.
“CERTIFICATIONS AND ASSURANCES” shall mean the annual Certifications and Assurances required of GCRTA
as an FTA grantee by FTA Circular 9300.1A, Appendix C, as it may be amended from time to time.
“CITY” shall mean the municipal corporation known as the City of Cleveland, including the executive and legislative branches.
“CITY FACILITIES” shall mean all buildings, streets, sidewalks, street furniture, parcels, rights-of-way, medians, easements and licenses, permitted areas and leased parcels or buildings, owned or under the management
and/or control of CITY. “CITY FACILITIES” shall not include basement areaways/vaults, Fire and Police alarm
system cables, and those portions of CITY-owned utilities that are not included in the ECTP.
“CITY PROJECTS” shall mean CITY projects that are geographically proximate to ECTP, that reasonably could
be foreseen to affect the ECTP, and that are performed during the terms of agreements between GCRTA and
CITY regarding ECTP, including but not limited to the water line, sewer, street lighting, and basement areaway
and vault construction or replacements described in Article 2.02.
“ECTP” shall mean Euclid Avenue Bus Rapid Transit Improvements and Transit Zone Improvements as described
in Article II.
“FTA MASTER AGREEMENT” shall mean the annual agreement between GCRTA and the FTA, known as FTA
MA(9) as it may be amended from time to time, that governs grant funding under 49 USC §5301 et seq., the
National Capital Transportation Act of 1969 as amended, the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, 23
USC §101, or other federal enabling legislation.
“FULL FUNDING GRANT AGREEMENT” shall mean an agreement entered into between GCRTA and the FTA
for grant funding of the ECTP or any part thereof pursuant to the requirements of FTA Circular 5200.1A as it
may be amended from time to time.
“FUNCTIONAL REPLACEMENT” is the replacement of any facility, building, structure, appurtenance, or utility
in accordance with CITY’s design criteria, standards, and construction requirements in effect at the completion
of 60% design, subject however to such changes in design criteria as may be mandated by state or federal laws
and/or regulations taking effect after the completion of 60% design.
“INTEGRATED TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEM” (“ITMS”) shall mean a comprehensive traffic control system, to be owned by the City, consisting of mast arms, signal heads, pedestrian signals, traffic control signs,
street name signs and lane marking, loop detectors, conduit, wiring and appurtenant equipment, all interconnected
to interact in a coordinated fashion. This system must be of a type that is compatible with the CITY’s integrated
downtown signal system.
“MAINTENANCE” shall mean all reasonable costs associated with the day-to-day and seasonal upkeep and longterm retention, preservation, and restoration.
“NINETY PERCENT DOCUMENTS” shall mean the 90% design review plans as may be modified in accordance
with design review by appropriate reviewing agencies.
“OPERATIONS PLAN” shall mean the plan developed by GCRTA to ensure the cost-efficient and effective
operation of the ECTP Transit System within the specified budget.
“PEDESTRIAN AREAS” shall mean those areas that encourage transit usage, and include sidewalks, passenger shelters, and pedestrian lighting as appropriate.
“PRIORITY” shall mean the advantage given to GCRTA vehicles operating within the project limits as defined
in Article II, Project Description, to deliver green lights, intersection by intersection, to allow GCRTA vehicles
to advance through the intersection for the purpose of achieving travel-time savings and more frequent service.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, emergency vehicles will have first Priority.
“RECONSTRUCTION," for purposes of Article II, shall mean total replacement of pavement, subgrades, sidewalks, curbs, curb drains, pavement markings, landscaping, and all appurtenances necessary to replace the roadway and sidewalk system.
“REHABILITATION," for purposes of Article II, shall mean pavement grinding, overlay, and base repairs as
necessary, sidewalk and curb repairs as necessary, and construction of concrete bus pads and appurtenances as
necessary.
“SIXTY PERCENT DOCUMENTS” shall mean the 60% design review plans as may be modified in accordance
with design review by appropriate reviewing agencies.
“THIRTY PERCENT DOCUMENTS” shall mean the 30% design review plans as may be modified in accordance
with design review by appropriate reviewing agencies.

1799

144

The City Record

July 23, 2003

ARTICLE II
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.01 The following is a brief description of the individual project elements included in ECTP:
1. Euclid Avenue Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Improvements
Design, engineering, and construction of capital improvements on Euclid Avenue in the right-of-way from and
including Public Square and continuing east to the City boundary, including:
A. Creation of a Center Median on Euclid Avenue from Public Square to East 107th Street, with adjacent exclusive bus lanes and new bus stations;
B. Inclusion of enhancements to pedestrian areas that encourage transit usage, including new sidewalks, passenger shelters, pedestrian lighting, landscaping, street trees and tree lawns;
C. Reconstruction (as defined in Article I) of a roadway composed of both bus lanes and travel lanes for other
vehicles. Roadway design incorporating the acquisition of additional right-of-way and the construction of appropriate curb lines, appropriate numbers and widths of travel lanes, upgraded street lighting, curbside parking bays
where appropriate, and crosswalks at intersections designed to clearly identify pedestrian areas;
D. Installation of an Integrated Traffic Management System (“ITMS”), to be owned by CITY, on Euclid Avenue,
to provide Priority to transit vehicles operating on Euclid Avenue. The elimination and/or relocation, where possible, as determined by the CITY, of on-street parking, and relocation, where possible, of loading zones and installation of pedestrian and vehicular signage to clearly identify the availability of transit service;
E. Reconfiguration of on-street parking;
F. Development of an Operations Plan and specifications for unique vehicles that are anticipated to be sixty
(60) foot low-floor, articulated, environmentally friendly vehicles with doors permitting both left- and right-side
boarding. The exact number of vehicles and propulsion system design will be determined during final design;
G. Preparation of a detailed plan for the protection and maintenance of vehicle and pedestrian traffic during
the construction of bus and roadway improvements. Consideration will be given to phasing some or all of the
roadway work to minimize safety conflicts with regular daytime traffic. The plan must provide safe access to
stakeholders and their invitees in the project area during construction, including, but not limited to, using directional signs, barriers and the like; and
H. Bicycle lanes as indicated in the 60% design drawings.
2. Transit Zone Improvements
Design, engineering, construction, and rehabilitation (as defined in Article I) of a Transit Zone bounded by St.
Clair Avenue, Prospect Avenue, West 3rd Street, and East 22nd Street in downtown Cleveland to provide for
expanded, highly visible transit operations in the Central Business District, to allow for convenient transfer
between transit routes for regional travel, and to bring all curb-ramps in the Transit Zone into national ADA
compliance. The Transit Zone Improvements include:
A. St. Clair Avenue: Rehabilitation of the roadway composed of bus lanes and travel lanes for other vehicles
to facilitate the creation of a curbside peak-hours reserved transit lane in each direction between West 3rd Street
and East 13th Street to minimize conflicts between private vehicles and transit vehicles, and to minimize the routine operating and maintenance costs of the designated bus lanes and other vehicular travel lanes;
B. Superior Avenue: Rehabilitation of the roadway composed of both bus lanes and travel lanes for other vehicles to facilitate the creation of a curbside 24-hour exclusive transit lane between West 3rd Street and East 18th
Street, with curb-cuts to permit stakeholder deliveries as defined in the 60% design documents, to minimize conflicts between private vehicles and transit vehicles, and to minimize the routine operating and maintenance costs
of the designated bus lanes and other vehicular travel lanes;
C. Chester Avenue: Rehabilitation of the roadway pavement between East 12th Street and East 17th Street;
D. East 12th Street: Rehabilitation of the southbound roadway pavement between Superior Avenue and Chester
Avenue;
E. East 13th Street: Rehabilitation of the roadway pavement between Superior Avenue and Chester Avenue;
F. East 17th Street: Acquire necessary right-of-way and perform new construction to extend roadway (including sidewalks and curbs) from Euclid Avenue to Prospect Avenue, and rehabilitate roadway surfaces between
Euclid Avenue and Chester Avenue, to serve primarily as a two-way, three-lane street;
G. East 18th, East 21st and East 22nd Streets, and Prospect Avenue: No roadway improvements will be performed on these streets. Work will consist of the installation of bus stops and bus shelters;
H. Preparation of a detailed plan, subject to written approval by the Director of Public Service, for the protection and maintenance of vehicle and pedestrian traffic during the construction of all Transit Zone roadway
improvements. Consideration will be given to phasing some or all of the roadway work to minimize safety conflicts with regular daytime traffic. The plan shall provide that any construction meet federal, state and CITY
requirements for a dedicated roadway;
I. Improvement to the ITMS to provide appropriate traffic signalization Priority to transit and safety vehicles
operating within the Transit Zone as proposed by GCRTA and approved in writing by the Director of Public
Service;
J. Inclusion of enhancements as appropriate to pedestrian areas that encourage transit usage, including
passenger shelters and pedestrian signage to provide greater visibility and information to transit riders; and
K. Modifications to traffic operations, as determined by CITY, to eliminate and/or relocate, where possible, onstreet parking and loading areas.
3. East Side Transit Center (ESTC)
Design, engineering and construction of a transit center, which will be located in the northwest quadrant of
the Prospect Avenue and East 21st Street intersection, which includes:
A. The ESTC will serve as a transportation hub where customers can make convenient connections between
local, circulator, intercommunity, regional, and downtown bus service. The consolidation of these routes provides

1800

July 23, 2003

The City Record

145

an enhancement of transit service coverage by interfacing routes that were not previously connected. Transfer
between routes is facilitated by timed arrivals and departures. The ESTC also allows coordination of RTA services with those provided by other transit systems. The construction of the ESTC will eliminate the need in the
area for on-street bus layovers and increase pedestrian access.
B. This facility will include a climate-controlled building providing a passenger waiting area, driver’s restrooms,
communications and security area, concession area, janitor’s room, transit police sub-station, mechanical room and
storage area. The building will have a footprint of approximately 5000 square feet. A layover area for 12 to 16
- 40' buses will be located adjacent to the building.
C. There is a possibility of joint development in conjunction with this facility. The design will be flexible to
include the possible development of housing, office space, commercial, retail or structured parking with escalator and/or elevator access. All such joint development will be constructed by other entities above the proposed
ESTC location.
4. Utility Work
The anticipated ECTP work on CITY-owned utilities consists of the design of street lighting, the purchase of
street lighting poles, lights, wiring and connections, the installation of all pole foundations and ductwork for
street lighting, and the replacement, as necessary, of catch basins and their first sewer lateral pipe section on
Euclid Avenue. Except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement, City-owned utility relocation shall not be at
the expense of ECTP or the GCRTA.
2.02 City Project Elements
Design, engineering and construction of the following City Projects are necessary for the construction of the
ECTP:
1. Basement Areaways/Vaults
CITY shall repair, reconstruct, modify, or abandon the basement areaways/vaults in the public right-of-way on
Euclid Avenue from Public Square and continuing east to the City boundary that must be so altered to accommodate construction of the ECTP. The work shall include related utility systems, and any work associated with
asbestos abatement and the removal, disposal, or remediation of any other hazardous material. CITY shall undertake any appropriate vacations of easements and permits that may exist for such basement areaways and vaults.
2. Euclid Avenue Water Main
CITY shall install a new water main in Euclid Avenue from Public Square to the eastern boundary of the City.
The work includes removal and replacement of existing connections and hydrants.
3. Euclid Avenue Sewer Work
CITY shall inspect the sewer in Euclid Avenue from Public Square to the eastern boundary of the City, identify sections that require repair or replacement, and repair or replace the identified sections.
4. Street Lighting Work
CITY shall install all street lighting poles, lights and all necessary wiring and connections supplied by ECTP.
The maintenance obligations of the CITY and GCRTA are described in Article 7.06.
ARTICLE III
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND COMMUNICATIONS
GCRTA and CITY agree to adopt the following project organization structure to oversee the execution of ECTP.
The following narrative provides a description of the roles and responsibilities of the various participants.
3.01 GCRTA Representatives
A. GCRTA CEO/General Manager – GCRTA CEO/General Manager or designee will coordinate with CITY’s
Mayor or the Mayor’s designee regarding general GCRTA/CITY issues and report such issues to the City Council liaison.
B. Project Manager - GCRTA will assign a full-time Project Manager who will be responsible for managing the
staff of GCRTA and consultants for the ECTP. The Project Manager will coordinate with CITY Project Manager regarding policy issues for the design, construction, and maintenance of the ECTP. GCRTA Project Manager
will also report to the City Council liaison on a regular basis and will provide the liaison copies of all documents between the CITY and GCRTA concerning the ECTP.
3.02 CITY Representatives
A. Mayor of the CITY - The Mayor or the Mayor’s designee will coordinate with the GCRTA CEO/General Manager or designee regarding general issues between GCRTA and CITY.
B. CITY Project Manager - The Mayor has appointed and will maintain a member of the Mayor’s Administration to coordinate with the GCRTA Project Manager concerning design, construction and maintenance of ECTP.
The CITY Project Manager will be responsible for coordinating CITY’s technical staff for the ECTP.
C. City Council Liaison – City Council will appoint a liaison to the ECTP. The liaison will coordinate with the
GCRTA Project Manager and CITY Project Manager concerning all aspects of the ECTP.
3.03 FTA Project Oversight
A. FTA will monitor all aspects of the ECTP.
B. The FTA shall have access to applicable GCRTA and CITY ECTP project files as permitted by law during
regular business hours and upon reasonable notice, including copies of all completed work products, invitations
to bid, invitations to progress review and public involvement meetings, and copies of minutes generated as a
result of all such meetings, and such other documentation as required.

1801

146

The City Record

July 23, 2003

C. As the FTA grant recipient, GCRTA is responsible for facilitating the flow of information between the parties to this Agreement. GCRTA will serve as the lead agency for administration of the grant and reporting to
FTA. All matters pertaining to grant funds expenditures, allocations and disbursement of funds will be within
the purview and control of GCRTA as the grant recipient. Further, all contracts funded in whole or in part by
the FTA grant will conform to GCRTA standards to insure their compliance with all applicable federal and state
rules and regulations.
3.04 Communications
All communication, whether written or oral, concerning problems, approvals, payments, decisions, or any other
pertinent matter between the parties shall be directed to the CITY Project Manager for CITY and to the GCRTA
Project Manager for GCRTA.
ARTICLE IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
4.01 Project-Affected Facilities
A. GCRTA shall cause to be performed and CITY shall agree to the relocation, modification or reconstruction
of CITY Facilities included in the ECTP budget in accordance with CITY’s design criteria, standards, and construction requirements in effect at the completion of 60% design subject, however, to such changes in design criteria as may be mandated by federal or state laws and/or regulations taking effect after the completion of 60%
design.
B. Functional Replacement of an operational CITY Facility shall be as indicated in the 60% documents and
shall not be considered a Betterment. Any Functional Replacements outside the scope of the ECTP will be mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, subject to legislative authorization for improvements over Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00).
C. CITY shall be responsible for the costs of CITY Projects including the costs associated with the study and
assessment, the preparation of detailed plans, the management of the work, and the construction of the CITY
Projects. CITY Projects shall be commenced only after passage of any necessary authorizing and assessment legislation by Cleveland City Council. CITY shall notify all property owners affected by the CITY Projects. As soon
as reasonably possible, CITY shall provide GCRTA and the City Council liaison with a final written disposition
of all work performed in CITY Projects.
D. Replacement or modification to CITY’s street surfaces as part of or during construction necessitated by use
of ECTP vehicles shall be at the ECTP’s expense.
E. To the extent any CITY design requirement imposes additional project costs that require another design element to be modified in cost, CITY and GCRTA shall achieve agreement without delay on project design increases and project design decreases, provided that transit operational elements shall not be affected by the cost of
the design changes. CITY shall pay the cost for any new CITY Facilities and/or replacement or modifications
to existing CITY Facilities that meet each of the following criteria: (1) the work is requested by CITY in writing pursuant to the “Notice” provisions in Article 11.11; (2) the work is not included in the ECTP 60% design
documents approved by CITY as a project element; (3) the work achieves a Betterment to the CITY; and (4) any
necessary legislative authorizations have been obtained from Cleveland City Council.
4.02 Plan Review and Approval
CITY shall review and approve, in writing, all phases of the design and construction of the ECTP, including
without limitation, construction sequencing and completion times allotted for maintenance and surface flow of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic, with particular concern being given to transit services, deliveries and emergency
equipment including CITY emergency and service vehicles. GCRTA shall coordinate design review procedures
with CITY in order to ensure the timely and efficient completion of engineering and architectural designs to the
extent that they affect CITY Facilities, CITY-owned utilities, or other CITY-owned or controlled property or facilities. CITY’s design review of GCRTA plans during each design review period specified below shall be coordinated through and by CITY Project Manager. CITY Project Manager shall transmit to the designated departmental representatives, the City Planning Committee and the Aviation and Transportation Committee of City Council, the City Planning Commission, and the Cleveland Landmarks Commission for review of the plans for conformance to CITY’s standards. CITY’s departmental comments pursuant to such design review shall be compiled
into one document with a final recommendation and forwarded to GCRTA Project Manager and the City Council
liaison by CITY Project Manager. CITY Project Manager shall furnish GCRTA and the City Council liaison with
written comments on proposed designs within the time frames covered under Article 4.03 (E) and (F) herein.
CITY’s administrative approvals of GCRTA’s designs shall not unreasonably be withheld.
4.03 Submittal Requirements
A. At 60/90% design review periods, GCRTA shall submit: (1) a sufficient number of plans to CITY Project
Manager for CITY departmental and Commission review, and (2) current cost estimates for all improvements comprising the ECTP.
B. Appropriate design calculations may be submitted with the plans as requested.
C. Prior to 60/90% design presentations to the City Planning Committee and the Aviation and Transportation
Committee of City Council, the City Planning Commission, and the Cleveland Landmarks Commission, GCRTA
shall present the plan to the City’s Design Review Committee for comments on the architectural harmony of the
ECTP’s surface features and their relationship with adjacent existing or proposed development. CITY Project
Manager will be notified of such submissions as well as any subsequent meetings or correspondence.
D. At the 60/90% design review periods, in addition to departmental review, the plans shall be submitted to
the City Planning Committee and the Aviation and Transportation Committee of City Council (to be held as a
joint committee at Council’s discretion), the City Planning Commission, and the Cleveland Landmarks Commission for review. GCRTA shall issue written notification to CITY Project Manager and the City Council liaison of
such submissions as well as any subsequent correspondence or meetings.

1802

July 23, 2003

The City Record

147

E. Thirty (30) business days shall be allotted for CITY’s departmental review at the 60% design review period, at which time CITY shall furnish GCRTA and the City Council liaison written notice of such comment, condition, objection, or approval pertaining to such plans. Within forty (40) business days of the conclusion of the
design review, GCRTA shall seek and obtain final approval by the City Planning Committee, the Aviation and
Transportation Committee of City Council, the City Planning Commission, and the Cleveland Landmarks Commission for the design and plans submitted or as modified as the result of departmental review.
F. Thirty (30) business days shall be allotted for CITY’s departmental review at the 90% design review period. CITY shall furnish GCRTA and the City Council liaison written notice of either approval or conditional
approval, including formal action by the City Planning Committee and the Aviation and Transportation Committees of City Council, the City Planning Commission, and the Cleveland Landmarks Commission.
G. After approval of the 90% design drawings by CITY and before GCRTA provides any contractor a Notice to
Proceed with any portion of ECTP construction, GCRTA or its Contractor shall be responsible for obtaining the
necessary CITY permits to perform work in the public right-of way, to perform any work on CITY-owned utility systems, or to build, shore, underpin, demolish or otherwise alter any structure on privately-owned land within the City of Cleveland. The Contractor will submit all necessary information required to support the requests
for CITY permits. Through the efforts of CITY Project Manager, and provided that it is appropriate to issue a
permit under the circumstances, CITY will expeditiously process all permit requests by GCRTA so that the permits will be available at Notice to Proceed for the various GCRTA construction contracts. Permits issued with
exclusions shall be resolved by CITY and GCRTA before work begins on the excluded items.
H. GCRTA’s contractor shall obtain the appropriate permits from CITY before proceeding with any revisions
to the approved plans. CITY Project Manager shall provide a monthly list of permits issued in connection with
the ECTP to the City Council liaison.
I. Upon completion of ECTP construction, GCRTA shall expeditiously proceed with preparation of “As-Built”
Drawings in the manner specified in Article 8.03.
J. All City Council Committee approvals of the 60/90% design review periods required in this Article IV shall
be evidenced by the passage of legislation by Cleveland City Council.
4.04 Project Controls
A. Schedule: CITY and GCRTA shall cooperatively develop a master schedule of ECTP and CITY Projects as
soon after this Agreement is signed as practicable that will minimize the likelihood that CITY, GCRTA, or their
contractors will cause delay in the construction schedule for ECTP or CITY Projects. During contract negotiations, design, and construction of ECTP and CITY Projects, CITY shall attempt to minimize any delay to the
ECTP schedule and subsequently to ECTP Contractors caused by CITY, its contractors, or any CITY-owned utility. CITY and GCRTA agree to include provisions in all design and construction contracts that will mitigate delay
claims including delays resulting from coordination of multiple contractors on the same site.
B. Monthly Reports: CITY shall provide GCRTA with a monthly report detailing all progress on the design and
construction of CITY Projects. The reports shall include contract value, percent completion of each contract task,
critical issues, and updated project milestone dates. GCRTA will incorporate monthly reports as provided by CITY
into the ECTP Monthly Report, a copy of which shall be provided to CITY.
C. Site Condition Certification: Upon completion and final acceptance of the construction of each CITY Project,
including subsurface preparation of roadway and sidewalk areas, CITY, within thirty (30) days, shall certify in
writing to GCRTA whether the facilities have been constructed in accordance with CITY and/or State of Ohio
specifications applicable to such CITY Project. CITY or its contractor shall be responsible for repair of all installations that are found to not be in adherence to such specifications, provided that such non-adherance negatively impacts the cost and/or schedule of ECTP. Upon prior written authorization by the Director of Public Service,
GCRTA may accomplish such repairs as part of ECTP and submit invoices for all expenses to CITY.
ARTICLE V
FINANCIAL COMMITMENT BY THE CITY
5.01 CITY has committed to GCRTA the following schedule of funds for the ECTP budget for design and construction of the BRT with the payment delivery date prior to December 1 of the specified year as follows:
ECTP Phasing Schedule

Phase I — Euclid Avenue from Innerbelt to East 79th Street — Transit Zone (as defined in Article II)
Phase II — Euclid Avenue from Public Square to the Innerbelt
Phase III — Euclid Avenue from East 79th To East Corporation line

1803

148

The City Record

July 23, 2003

CITY’s total payment shall not exceed $8.0 million, except for matters that are not included in the ECTP budget for design and construction of the BRT and that are agreed to by CITY in this Agreement or another binding contract. CITY shall not be responsible for cost overruns on the ECTP contracts. At each phase of the ECTP,
CITY shall meet its commitment in this Article V without making any offsets CITY shall furnish the appropriate evidence by July 1st of each year that CITY’s Director of Finance has certified funds for CITY’s financial
commitment subject to annual appropriations as may be approved by legislation passed by Cleveland City Council. If the ECTP is discontinued or terminated prior to its completion, GCRTA shall send CITY a detailed and
reasonable estimate of City’s proportional share of the funds necessary to close out GCRTA’s existing ECTP financial commitments. CITY shall pay GCRTA by December 1 such reasonable estimate up to the amount scheduled
to be paid under this Article during the then-current year. Upon receiving such estimated payment, GCRTA shall
close out and make final payment on all ECTP contracts, and shall return any unspent money to CITY and other
funding agencies based upon their relative contributions after requisite approvals, if any, of the FTA. If the estimated payment is insufficient to pay CITY’s proportional share of the close-out costs, GCRTA shall invoice the
CITY for its proportional share of the deficiency. CITY shall pay such amount, but CITY’s total payment shall
not exceed the amount scheduled to be paid under this Article for the then-current year. Except for such closeout payments, CITY shall have no obligation to make further scheduled payments described in this Article, or to
perform any other obligation under this agreement.
5.02 CITY also commits to provide and pay for all design, construction and management of basement
areaways/vaults work described in Article 2.02. These costs are currently estimated by CITY to be $10 million,
which is in addition to the payments stated in Article 5.01 above. All additional costs beyond $10 million associated with the basement areaways/vaults shall be borne entirely by CITY. CITY shall have no obligation to proceed with the basement areaways/vaults project prior to the receipt of the Full Funding Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
FINANCIAL COMMITMENT BY GCRTA
GCRTA has committed to reimburse CITY for median landscape maintenance in accordance with Article
7.03 B.
ARTICLE VII
PROJECT PROVISIONS
7.01 Maintenance of Traffic
A. GCRTA shall develop a Maintenance of Traffic plan for CITY, which will provide for the overall maintenance of the traffic flow on commercial and arterial streets affected by the construction of ECTP. This plan must
be approved in writing by the Commissioner of Traffic Engineering and Director of Public Service. This plan
shall include general provisions for maintenance of pedestrian and vehicular access to public and private establishments, within the areas affected. Special consideration shall be given to the necessity of providing access to
business establishments and/or pedestrians, deliveries, maintenance of transit services, and fire-fighting and other
emergency equipment. Such plans will serve to coordinate the schedule of operations of GCRTA’s Contractors and
shall be submitted to CITY, including the City Council liaison, for its review.
B. The cost of any variation from the approved Maintenance of Traffic plan during construction caused by the
ECTP shall be at the ECTP expense unless otherwise mutually agreed.
C. Transit service rerouting shall be coordinated between CITY and GCRTA. GCRTA shall be responsible for
coordinating with CITY Traffic Engineering Division the rerouting of transit service necessitated by construction activities.
D. GCRTA shall be financially and operationally responsible for the integration of the ECTP ITMS in CITY’s
existing traffic control network within the project area as described in Article II and as defined in 60% design
documents. The traffic integration plan must be approved in writing by the Commissioner of Traffic Engineering and Director of Public Service.
7.02 Street Restoration
All pavement restoration in public streets shall be in strict conformance with the specifications and practices
of CITY in effect at the completion of 60% design subject, however, to such changes in design criteria as may
be mandated by federal or state laws taking effect after the completion of 60% design.
7.03 Operation and Maintenance after Construction
A. Except as provided in Article 7.03 (B) and (C) and 7.06, upon completion of the relocation, modification or
reconstruction of CITY Facilities in accordance with the plans approved by CITY, CITY shall maintain such
improvements at no cost to GCRTA. Any project to install public art as part of the ECTP shall include provisions for maintenance from non-CITY funds.
B. GCRTA will trim at its sole cost all trees and shrubs located within the immediate Center Median Bus Station area as defined in Article I. CITY will, with its own workforce, perform all remaining maintenance in the
Center Median and sidewalk area. GCRTA will reimburse CITY for Center Median maintenance plus annual adjustment for inflation based upon the CPI. “CPI” shall mean the National Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers, U.S. City Average, as compiled by the United States Department of Labor or, if the United States Department of Labor no longer publishes such a Consumer Price Index, any comparable index published by the other
branch or department of the United States Government. CITY’s maintenance plan shall be subject to GCRTA’s
reasonable approval at the 90% design stage. The agreement on the maintenance plan shall be memorialized in
writing and signed by GCRTA and the Director of Parks Recreation and Properties. This reimbursement shall
be not less than Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) and not more than Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000) per year,
plus annual adjustment for inflation based upon the CPI.

1804

July 23, 2003

The City Record

149

C. GCRTA shall be responsible for all costs associated with the maintenance of the Center Median Bus Stations, including related utilities except as provided in Article 7.06(C).
D. Existing bus shelters that no longer service buses shall be relocated based on GCRTA policy and the CITY
approval process for bus shelters.
E. The ITMS shall be owned, operated and maintained by CITY following completion of construction and acceptance by the Director of Public Service. CITY shall use its best efforts to maintain and operate the system so
that it continues to provide Priority in accordance with the Euclid Corridor Transportation Management System
(“ECTMS”). All revisions to the ECTMS shall be mutually agreed to by CITY and GCRTA prior to the implementation of such revisions.
F. CITY reserves the right to maintain its rights-of-way and utilities and will coordinate its normal repairs and
inspections to not unreasonably impact GCRTA’s regular operations and shall give a minimum of fourteen (14)
days’ notice prior to the start of such activities except in the case of emergencies affecting the public safety,
health and welfare. If a CITY-owned utility disruption occurs that demands the disruption of GCRTA’s ECTP
operations, CITY will effect repairs to a level of Functional Replacement as originally designed as promptly as
possible. The cost of the repairs shall be borne by the party responsible for the disruption. If CITY-owned utility services are disrupted and GCRTA has received prior written approval from the Director of Public Service,
GCRTA may rectify and restore the disrupted utility service with GCRTA forces or contractors only upon the
occurrence of all of the following: (i) the disrupted utility service significantly disrupts GCRTA ECTP service;
(ii) CITY fails to commence repairs within 24 hours of the disruption and promptly execute repairs to the disrupted utility; and (iii) the Director of Public Utilities is notified of GCRTA’s intent to rectify or restore utility
services. GCRTA shall invoice CITY for its costs incurred to rectify or restore service. The invoice shall be due
and payable within sixty (60) days. CITY shall accomplish invoice approval or notice of disapproval within fourteen (14) days of receipt of invoice.
G. CITY reserves the right to inspect and maintain any and all CITY Facilities and will coordinate its routine
inspections and maintenance repair with GCRTA. GCRTA will cooperate with CITY’s efforts of inspection and
maintenance. GCRTA shall also cooperate with CITY if a declared emergency condition arises.
H. CITY retains the right, without notice to GCRTA, to penetrate the right-of-way for proper municipal purposes and to issue permits to third parties for uses of the right-of-way below the surface when such uses will
not result in a disruption of GCRTA’s operations. CITY or its permittee shall notify GCRTA a minimum of fourteen (14) days in advance of any uses of the right-of-way that will disrupt GCRTA operations with the exception of an emergency affecting the public safety, health or welfare. CITY’s street opening and road replacement
policy will include but not be limited to (1) minimizing the impact on transit operations; 2) maintaining the
integrity of pavement materials; and (3) minimizing disruption of median bus stations.
7.04 Projections in Public Space
A. GCRTA’s plans shall indicate those basement areaways, vaults, signs, display windows, footings, foundations,
and other projections in public space that must be modified or removed to accommodate the construction of ECTP.
B. Upon a reasonable determination by GCRTA that any projection into or occupancy of public space should
be modified, removed or vacated, GCRTA shall notify CITY. CITY will expeditiously investigate such matters
and mutually agree with GCRTA as to what action will be taken by CITY to resolve the issue. The City Council liaison shall be copied on all correspondence or notifications.
7.05 Disposition of CITY Equipment and Material
A. CITY shall have the right to determine the disposition of its equipment and materials impacted by the
operations of any GCRTA contractor. The items to be salvaged shall be determined prior to the 90% design review
period and be incorporated in the contract documents for each individual contract. The methods of disposition
shall include, but are not limited to:
1. Abandonment in place by CITY.
2. Salvage of material and equipment by CITY forces, which shall be accomplished in a timely manner,
in accordance with the established construction schedules.
3. Salvage by GCRTA’s contractor, at request of CITY, with salvaged material being delivered to
designated CITY storage yards. All costs associated with this salvage process shall be considered part
of the ECTP.
B. The cost of salvaging any CITY equipment or material, not identified prior to the 90% design review period,
shall be at CITY’s expense.
7.06 Street Lighting and Traffic Signal System
A. Where practical, GCRTA’s construction plans shall maintain the existing electrical ducts and cables used in
support of the existing street lighting and traffic signals. In the event that a replacement of ducting and cables
is required, the existing ducting and cables shall be maintained by the ECTP until the replacements have been
installed and connected.
B. Street lighting and traffic signal relocations shall be at ECTP’s expense if such relocations are within the
project limits as defined in Article II, Project Description.
C. Streetlighting constructed under the ECTP that is solely for the benefit and lighting of the pedestrian ways
and roadway shall become the maintenance responsibility of CITY once placed into service. The cost of the power
to operate such lighting shall be the responsibility of CITY. Lighting solely for the benefit of the transit stations, and not roadway lighting installed within the median, shall be the maintenance responsibility of GCRTA,
which shall be responsible for the cost of power to operate this lighting.
7.07 Parking Meters Within ECTP Limits
CITY and GCRTA shall have the following responsibilities relating to parking meters located within the ECTP
geographical limits defined in Article II:
A. CITY shall remove and reinstall parking meter heads, at CITY’s expense, and in coordination with the schedule of operations of GCRTA. The meters shall be state-of-the-art electronic meters.

1805

150

The City Record

July 23, 2003

B. GCRTA shall remove and dispose of existing parking meter posts during construction and install new posts
whenever necessary at ECTP’s expense.
ARTICLE VIII
PROJECT PROVISIONS DURING CONSTRUCTION
8.01 Construction Inspection and Approval
A. Work performed by any contractor employed by GCRTA in furtherance of ECTP shall be inspected by GCRTA
in accordance with GCRTA Quality Program Plan and Project Execution Manuals. CITY will provide a project
representative at its own cost to observe the construction of all CITY Facilities. The CITY project representative shall act as a liaison during construction between the City’s Project Manager and GCRTA. CITY project representative shall meet regularly with GCRTA’s Construction Superintendent to discuss project schedules, changes,
requests for information, requests for change orders impacting CITY funding, and quality control issues. CITY
project representative shall promptly report all problems, disagreements, and objections to GCRTA’s Construction
Superintendent at the ECTP construction site, and shall not issue any direction to any contractor working on the
site.
B. CITY project representative shall review all ECTP improvements for compliance with the plans and specifications approved by CITY. Upon completion of the work and before final acceptance by CITY, GCRTA or its
designee shall certify in writing to CITY whether the facilities have been constructed in accordance with the
plans and specifications. Upon receipt of such certification, the CITY project representative will schedule a final
walk-through with GCRTA and, within thirty (30) days of completion of all punch list items identified in the
walk-through, CITY’s Project Manager shall issue a written acceptance of the CITY Facilities.
C. CITY’s project representative shall keep a log of all problems, disagreements, and objections to any work
observed in the field, and shall provide a copy to GCRTA’s Construction Superintendent upon request.
D. GCRTA will maintain a document control system approved by the FTA.
8.02 Construction Coordination
A. All construction work performed in, on, under, or over public space located in the City of Cleveland shall,
in the interest of public convenience and safety, be performed in accordance with schedules submitted to and
approved by the Director of Public Service to coordinate such construction work with other construction work in
such public space. CITY shall exercise its jurisdiction and control over such public spaces, including the issuance
of permits, to facilitate GCRTA’s use and occupation thereof for the purposes of this Agreement.
B. GCRTA will be required to respond promptly to any complaints or comments received from CITY involving
problems with utilities, pedestrian and/or vehicular traffic movement or access to public or private property resulting from ECTP construction.
C. All utility services (water, wastewater, electric, etc.), the police and fire alarm systems and the traffic signal wiring shall not be interrupted at any time, except as mutually agreed upon, or under emergency conditions.
GCRTA shall provide notification in writing to the CITY Project Manager forty-eight (48) hours prior to any
planned interruption.
D. If GCRTA’s construction of the ECTP damages CITY-owned or private utility facilities or disrupts utility
service, GCRTA and/or its contractors shall immediately notify CITY Project Manager and the affected utility.
CITY shall rectify or repair the problem if the damaged utility facilities are owned by the Division of Water,
Division of Water Pollution Control, or Cleveland Public Power. CITY shall invoice GCRTA for its damages. Reimbursement for such repair will be based upon actual, verifiable and reasonable repair costs with no mark-up. The
invoice shall be due and payable within sixty (60) days of the approval of such invoice. Invoice approval or
notice of disapproval shall be communicated by the GCRTA within fourteen (14) days of receipt of invoice.
E. CITY, prior to the commencement of construction, will provide a list of contacts for all CITY agencies impacted by ECTP.
F. During construction, GCRTA will schedule periodic joint meetings between GCRTA and CITY staff and the
City Council liaison to review progress of construction and future project actions.
G. Upon reasonable notice, CITY may schedule special progress meetings, which representatives from GCRTA
shall attend.
8.03 “As-Built” Drawings
A. GCRTA shall maintain a set of “as-built” drawings in the Construction Superintendent’s field office at all
times. CITY and City Council liaison shall have immediate access (i.e., less than 1 hour during emergencies) to
the “as-built” drawings until CITY receives its own set. GCRTA will utilize an electronic format compatible with
CITY’s existing system.
B. Within six (6) months after completion of the ECTP, GCRTA shall furnish CITY with full scale mylar film
reproductions and half-scale equivalent reproductions of plans in booklet form showing all facilities installed in
public space or rights-of-way.
ARTICLE IX
REAL ESTATE
9.01 Property Acquisition
A. Temporary staging, construction work and storage areas:
Upon obtaining any necessary authorization, CITY shall grant to GCRTA, in an expeditious manner, access to
CITY-owned property to be mutually agreed upon prior to construction for GCRTA contractor staging, temporary
construction work and storage areas. For uses up to one (1) year in duration, CITY shall issue a license under
Section 183.16 of the Codified Ordinances. GCRTA will enter into license or lease agreement(s) identifying the
license or lease terms for each parcel of CITY-owned property or properties identified for GCRTA contractor staging, temporary construction work and storage areas. The term of such license or lease agreements shall cover
the period through demobilization by the construction contractors and shall include a property description that

1806

July 23, 2003

The City Record

151

is reasonably satisfactory to CITY. These properties shall be provided to GCRTA without monetary consideration,
rent or fee. GCRTA shall restore each property to its preexisting condition when the property is no longer needed by GCRTA for the purposes described in this paragraph.
B. Public Streets
As provided in the ordinance authorizing this Agreement, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized
to issue GCRTA an encroachment permit (easement), prepared by the Director of Law, for the Transit Strips.
The encroachment permit may be terminated only for one of the following reasons: (1) in the event that GCRTA
uses the Transit Strips for other than public transit and incidental related purposes, (2) if GCRTA ceases use of
public transportation operations in all or any significant portion of the Transit Strips available for its use for a
period exceeding six (6) months after revenue service begins, or (3) the ECTP is abandoned before service begins.
“Transit Strips” shall mean all Center Median Bus Stations, median strips and all dedicated bus lanes (as depicted in detail on the Sixty Percent Documents) located within the rights-of-way of the Euclid Avenue Bus Rapid
Transit Improvements as defined in Article II. Termination for one of the above reasons shall be effective upon
legislative action. Nothing herein shall be construed or deemed to impair or limit the City’s rights and obligations to preserve and maintain the public rights-of-way in trust for public purposes.
C. Permanent (off-street) Property Transfers
1. As part of the consideration for the benefits to CITY from the ECTP, CITY shall convey to GCRTA
the properties identified on Exhibit A, excluding street dedications or property on streets closed to
traffic, and such other properties as may be agreed upon between CITY and GCRTA. The form of
CITY’s deed shall substantially conform to the deed attached as Exhibit “B.” CITY shall also, where
necessary for construction and maintenance of ECTP, grant to GCRTA slope and drainage easements
on CITY-owned property. The property interests described in this paragraph shall be conveyed to
GCRTA only after passage of appropriate legislation and resolutions by the Board of Control.
2. If necessary, CITY shall grant to GCRTA an interim license under Section 183.16 of the Codified Ordinances or encroachment permit to gain access to property to be conveyed to GCRTA until passage of
appropriate legislation and resolutions by the Board of Control.
D. Preparation of Enabling Legislation
CITY Law Department shall prepare any and all municipal legislation pertaining to the ECTP and the transactions contemplated herein, and the appropriate administrative official shall timely submit such legislation to
the City Council for consideration.
9.02 Disposition of Remaining Property
GCRTA agrees, to the extent permitted by State law, federal requirements and GCRTA policies, that future
development of any remaining portions of land acquired from CITY for the purpose of ECTP construction will
be closely coordinated with the development and redevelopment programs of CITY. Any CITY property conveyed
to GCRTA at no cost and not used by GCRTA shall be reconveyed to CITY by GCRTA at no cost upon completion of construction of the ECTP.
9.03 Eminent Domain
CITY shall exercise its rights of eminent domain if, and only if, all federal prerequisite land acquisition requirements have been satisfied and the following conditions are met:
A. The property to be appropriated will be used for roadway purposes or other CITY purposes;
B. GCRTA shall document to CITY its good faith negotiations with the property owner to purchase the property, including providing records of all contacts, meetings, and correspondence between GCRTA and the property owner;
C. GCRTA shall provide CITY with an independent appraisal of the property to be appropriated;
D. GCRTA shall provide CITY with a title report showing all interests in the property to be appropriated;
E. GCRTA shall provide CITY with an environmental report to CITY’s reasonable satisfaction on the property
to be appropriated;
F. GCRTA shall transfer to CITY the appraisal price for the property to be appropriated and shall transfer to
the Court any remaining purchase price the Court determines to be due;
G. GCRTA shall assume all liability for court costs, filing fees, and outside counsel costs to CITY which were
approved in advance by GCRTA, if any, in connection with the appropriation; and
H. City Council has passed all necessary and appropriate authorizing legislation.
ARTICLE X
REIMBURSEMENT
10.01 Reimbursement to CITY
A. GCRTA shall reimburse CITY for work not required to be performed by CITY under this Agreement or otherwise and undertaken upon request by GCRTA. Reimbursement for this work will be based upon actual verifiable and reasonable design and construction costs with no mark-up. CITY reserves the right to decline any such
work requested by GCRTA that is not a CITY Project. GCRTA will reimburse CITY its direct cost for specific
work performed by CITY personnel or designees when requested by GCRTA.
CITY shall bill GCRTA monthly for the reimbursable cost accumulated in the previous calendar month. Such
invoices shall clearly show GCRTA’s contract number and CITY’s control number and shall be in such detail to
permit an evaluation of the materials furnished and the services performed by CITY. Payment shall be made on
a monthly basis. CITY bills shall be submitted on a monthly basis within ninety (90) days from date of performance of the applicable work.

1807

152

The City Record

July 23, 2003

B. To the extent permitted by law, GCRTA and FTA shall have the right to audit CITY’s ECTP records at reasonable times and places mutually agreed upon including books, records, documents, papers and other supporting
data involving those transactions in which CITY performed work or services for GCRTA. Such records shall be
maintained and kept available for a period of seven (7) years from the completion of the work to which they
pertain.
10.02 Work Authorization by GCRTA
Prior to the performance of work undertaken upon request by the GCRTA, unless otherwise indicated in this
Agreement, CITY shall provide GCRTA with a detailed written estimate of all costs, including but not limited to
labor, materials and overhead, for the services and, if applicable, secure the necessary legislative authorization
prior to commencement of work. GCRTA shall issue a Work Authorization (the “Work Authorization”) to CITY
on GCRTA’s standard form, and provide a copy to the City Council liaison. In the performance of any of the
authorized work or services, CITY may not incur charges in excess of those shown on the Work Authorization
without the prior written approval of GCRTA. GCRTA will not be obligated to pay for work absent an approved
Work Authorization.
10.03 Reimbursement to GCRTA
A. CITY shall reimburse GCRTA for work undertaken upon request by CITY unless otherwise indicated in this
Agreement. Reimbursement for this work will be based upon actual verifiable and reasonable design and construction costs with no mark-up. GCRTA reserves the right to decline any work that is not an ECTP project.
CITY will reimburse GCRTA its direct cost for specific work performed by GCRTA personnel or designees when
requested by CITY. GCRTA shall bill CITY monthly for the reimbursable cost accumulated in the previous calendar month. Such invoices shall clearly show GCRTA’s contract number and CITY’s control number and shall
be in such detail to permit an evaluation of the materials furnished and the services performed by GCRTA. Payment shall be made on a monthly basis. GCRTA bills shall be submitted on a monthly basis within ninety (90)
days from date of performance of the applicable work.
B. To the extent permitted by law, CITY shall have the right to audit GCRTA’s ECTP records at reasonable
times and places mutually agreed upon including books, records, documents, papers and other supporting data
involving those transactions in which GCRTA performed work or services for CITY. Such records shall be maintained and kept available for a period of seven (7) years from the completion of the work to which they pertain.
10.04 Work Authorization by CITY
Prior to the performance of work undertaken upon request by CITY, unless otherwise indicated in this Agreement, GCRTA shall provide CITY with a written estimate for the services and, if applicable, CITY shall secure
the necessary legislative authorization prior to commencement of work. CITY shall issue a Work Authorization
to GCRTA on CITY’s standard form, and provide a copy to the City Council liaison. In the performance of any
of the authorized work or services, GCRTA may not incur charges in excess of those shown on the Work Authorization without the prior written approval of CITY. CITY will not be obligated to pay for work absent an
approved Work Authorization.
ARTICLE XI
MISCELLANEOUS
11.01 Modification of Agreement
The provisions of this Agreement may be modified or amended only after receipt of legislative authorization
of Cleveland City Council and the GCRTA Board of Trustees consenting to such modification or amendment and
in conformity with the Charter of the CITY and the bylaws of GCRTA.
11.02 Headings
The parties agree that article and paragraph headings are solely for convenience of reference and shall neither constitute a part of this Agreement nor have any legal effect whatsoever.
11.03 Recitals
The recitals are hereby made a part of this Agreement.
11.04 Governing Law
This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio.
11.05 Waiver
The waiver of any terms of this Agreement or failure of CITY or GCRTA to insist on strict compliance and
prompt performance followed by acceptance by CITY or GCRTA of such performance, shall not constitute or be
construed as a waiver or relinquishment of any right by CITY or GCRTA to enforce all terms strictly in the
event of a continuous or subsequent default.
11.06 Dispute Resolution
A. GCRTA and CITY agree to attempt to resolve disputes arising from or relating to this Agreement, ECTP,
and CITY Projects, through good faith negotiation among the parties involved. Any claim, controversy or dispute
concerning the interpretation or performance of this Agreement, the performance of work relating to or necessary for the ECTP or CITY Projects, or to the threatened, alleged or actual breach of this Agreement which is
not disposed of by mutual agreement within a period of seven (7) calendar days after one party has provided
written notice of the dispute to the other, first shall be subject to Progressive Dispute Resolution procedures
described in this Article. If negotiations under the Progressive Dispute Resolution procedures are not successful

1808

July 23, 2003

The City Record

153

within the time period contained in Article 11.06 (C) and (D), then either party may use any available remedy
to seek resolution of the dispute in any court of competent jurisdiction and/or exercise the remedies provided in
Article XIII, and these proceedings will have been without prejudice to either party. Notwithstanding the Parties’ agreement to these procedures, either Party may seek immediate injunctive relief if such Party believes that
injunctive relief is necessary to prevent immediate irreparable harm to its interests. Nothing in this paragraph
is intended to create new causes of action for either party.
B. Invocation of Progressive Dispute Resolution Procedures. The party believing itself aggrieved (the “Invoking Party”) shall call for progressive management involvement in the dispute negotiations by written notice to
the other party. Such notice shall be without prejudice to the Invoking Party’s right to any other remedy permitted by this Agreement.
Progression of Management Involvement. The Parties shall use their best efforts to arrange personal meetings
and/or telephone conferences as needed, at mutually convenient times and locations, between negotiators for the
Parties at the successive management levels set forth below.
Level

CITY

GCRTA

Level 1

CITY Project Manager

GCRTA Project Manager

Level 2

Director of Public Service

Deputy General Manager –
Eng. & Project Mgmt.

Level 3

Mayor or Mayor’s Designee

CEO/General Manager

C. The negotiators at each management level shall have a period of ten (10) business days in which to attempt
to resolve the dispute. The allotted time for the first-level negotiators shall begin on the date of receipt of the
Invoking Party’s notice.
D. If a resolution is not achieved by negotiators at any given management level at the end of the allotted time
or any extension thereto agreed to by the negotiators at that level in writing, the allotted time for the negotiators at the next management level, if any, shall begin immediately. The allotted time shall be deemed to have
expired upon the Invoking Party’s receipt of written notice that the other Party rejects the Invoking Party’s position.
E. If resolution is achieved at any management level, the resolution shall be memorialized in writing, shall
state the agreements reached and describe the actions to be taken, if any, and shall be signed by the Deputy
General Manager of Engineering and Project Management and the Director of Public Service.
F. The agreement of the Parties to these Progressive Dispute Resolution procedures is solely for the benefit
of the Parties and is not intended to create any legal, equitable, or beneficial interest in any third party or to
vest in any third party any interest with respect to the enforcement of performance of these procedures.
11.07 Insurance
The following minimum limits of insurance will be maintained by any contractors or subcontractors retained
by CITY or GCRTA to perform work that is part of or related to CITY projects and ECTP. GCRTA will also
maintain such insurance limits as outlined in a., b., and c. below. CITY (for its contractors) and GCRTA (for its
contractors) will evaluate each contract and the exposures presented by the work and increase required limits
of insurance to a reasonable level as dictated by the nature of the work. For CITY, the Director of Law and
Director of Finance will be responsible for setting appropriate insurance limits and types of insurance. For GCRTA,
the Director of Risk Management will be responsible for setting appropriate insurance limits and types of insurance. There shall be no reduction of the insurance requirements of this article without the written agreement of
the Director of Public Service and the Deputy General Manager-Engineering and Project Management.
In lieu of insurance, CITY shall be financially responsible for any CITY liabilities arising out of or related to
this Agreement.
Prior to commencement of any work and until completion of its work under a contract, each contractor or subcontractor shall maintain the following insurance coverage, at its cost, from insurers acceptable to the contracting party, giving evidence of such coverage to the contracting party prior to commencing work at the project
site:
a. Commercial General Liability Insurance in the amount of $2,000,000 combined single limit each occurrence
for bodily injury and/or property damage with a $2 million per project annual aggregate. Said policy shall also
include:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Premises / Operations coverage
Personal Injury coverage
Liability for independent contractors
Products / Completed Operations liability insurance: This insurance must be maintained for a period
of not less than 5 years from the completion of the work
Contractual liability coverage insuring the “hold harmless’ provision set forth in Article 11.08.
Liability for explosion, collapse and underground property damage
Said policy shall be written on an “occurrence” basis.
Owner will accept any combination of primary CGL and Excess or Umbrella policies to meet the
minimum coverage requirements above.

b. Automobile Liability Insurance in the amount of $2,000,000 combined single limit each accident for bodily
injury and /or property damage. Said policy shall apply to all owned, leased, hired and non-owned vehicles used
in connection with the work.
c. Statutory Workers’ Compensation coverage in compliance with all applicable state workers’ compensation
laws to cover all employees furnishing labor under the terms of this contract and under the control of the Contractor or subcontractor. Employers’ Liability coverage in the amount of $1,000,000 per accident / $1,000,000 per

1809

154

The City Record

July 23, 2003

employee for disease will also be included, either under the Workers’ Compensation policy or under the Commercial General Liability policy (Stop Gap) referenced under a. above. In Ohio: a copy of a certificate of premium payment from the Industrial Commission and Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a copy of the Certificate of Employer’s Right to Pay Compensation Directly.
d. Contractors Equipment Coverage must be provided on an “All Risk” basis, covering physical damage to all
tools and equipment, including automotive equipment, used by the contractor.
e. Where exposures involve asbestos abatement work, Asbestos Liability Insurance in the amount of $2 million
per occurrence; Bodily Injury and Property Damage, $2 million general aggregate; and $2 million completed
operations. As this insurance is written on a Claims-made basis, the policy shall either continue to be in force
or that an extended notification period be provided allowing for claims to be submitted for a minimum of 5 years
following completion of the contract.
f. Where work involves environmental impairment exposures (to be determined by CITY & GCRTA) Environmental Impairment Liability Insurance in the amount of $1 million each loss; $2 million annual aggregate. As
this insurance is written on a Claims-made basis, the policy shall either continue to be in force or that an extended notification period be provided allowing for claims to be submitted for a minimum of 5 years following completion of the contract.
g. Where any work will be performed within 50 feet of GCRTA or other railroad tracks, Railroad Protective
Liability Insurance naming GCRTA as insured in the amount of $2 million per occurrence and $6 million in the
aggregate to cover bodily injury and / or property damage liability as well as physical damage to property.
h. General Requirements: The contractor shall not commence work herein until it has obtained the required
insurance and has received written approval of such insurance by the contracting party. It shall furnish evidence
of such insurance in the form of a certificate (Acord or similar form). The certificate shall provide the following:
• In the event the insurance should be changed or cancelled, such change or cancellation shall not be
effective until 30 days after the contracting parties have received written notice of such change or
cancellation from the insurance company. Such notice shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to either CITY’S appropriate Director or GCRTA’s Director of Procurement, depending on
the identity of the contracting party
• Name CITY and GCRTA as an additional insured for coverages required under a., b., e. and f. above,
for claims arising out of operations in conjunction with the contract.
• Contain a waiver of subrogation in favor of CITY and GCRTA.
• Specific reference to the subject contract.
• Specific reference to all deductibles & Self Insured Retentions (SIR).
• Shall be primary and non-contributing to any insurance possessed or procured by CITY and GCRTA
and any self-insurance program maintained by either.
• An insurance company having less than an A- X rating by The A. M. Best Company will not be considered acceptable. All certificates are subject to acceptance by CITY and GCRTA. City and GCRTA
shall be entitled to receive a full copy of the insurance policy (ies) upon request and reserves the
right to review financial statements & approve any deductibles or self-insured retention (SIR). Any
deductible or SIR is for the account of the Contractor.
i. Approval of the insurance by CITY or GCRTA shall not relieve or decrease the liability of the Contractor,
CITY or GCRTA hereunder. It is to be understood that GCRTA and CITY do not in any way represent that the
insurance or the limits of insurance specified herein are sufficient or adequate to protect the Contractor’s interests or liabilities.
j. In the event Contractor neglects, refuses or fails to provide the insurance required under the Contract documents, or if such insurance is canceled for any reason, the CITY or GCRTA shall have the right but not the duty
to procure the same, and the cost thereof shall be deducted from moneys then due or thereafter to become due
to Contractor.
11.08 Construction Contract Language
A. With respect to CITY Projects and the ECTP contracts that reasonably could be foreseen to affect existing
CITY Infrastructure or the ECTP or CITY projects, the contracting party (CITY or GCRTA) shall include or
require the inclusion of the following language in the contract:
INDEMNITY CLAUSE
1. The Contractor shall indemnify, keep and save harmless the GCRTA and the City of Cleveland and
their respective officers; agents and employees against all suits or claims that may be based upon any death or
injury to persons or property that may occur, or that may be alleged to have occurred in the course of the performance of this Contract by the Contractor, or as a result of the performance of this Contract by the Contractor, whether or not it shall be claimed that the injury was caused through a negligent act or omission of the
Contractor or his/her employee, and whether or not the persons injured or whose property was damaged were
third parties, employees of the Contractor or employees of any authorized Subcontractor; and the Contractor shall
at his/her own expense defend GCRTA and the City of Cleveland in all litigation, pay all attorneys’ fees and all
costs and other expenses arising out of the litigation or claim or incurred in connection therewith; and shall, at
his/her own expense, satisfy and cause to be discharged such judgments as may be obtained against the GCRTA
and City, or any of its officers, agents or employees.
2. With respect to any and all claims against GCRTA, the City, or other officer, partner, employee or
agent of the City or GCRTA by any employee of the Contractor, Subcontractors, their agents, anyone directly or
indirectly employed by any of them, or anyone for whose acts any of them may be liable, the indemnification
obligation of subparagraph (1) above shall not be limited in any way by any limitation on the amount or type
of damages, compensation or benefits payable by or for the Contractor, Subcontractors or other person under
applicable workers’ or workmen’s compensation, benefit or disability laws, it being clearly agreed and understood
by the parties hereto that the Contractor expressly waives any immunity the Contractor or might have had under
such laws.

1810

The City Record

July 23, 2003

155

B. The Parties shall hold each other harmless with respect to matters described in subparagraph (1) above and
each Party hereby waives any claim or right to assert any cause of action or alleged cause of action or claim
or demand against the other Party, its officers, agents and employees that may arise regarding any matter
described in subparagraph (1) above.
C. With respect to the award of each CITY Project or ECTP construction contract that reasonably could be
foreseen to affect the ECTP or existing CITY infrastructure, the contracting party (CITY or GCRTA) shall use
best efforts to administer such contract in a manner that avoids or minimizes delay or disruption to the construction activities of the other party, including the use of liquidated damages provisions and other contractual
remedies.
D. CITY will name or cause to be named GCRTA as an additional insured on all insurance policies required
for all construction contracts for CITY Projects. GCRTA will name or cause to be named CITY as an additional
insured on all insurance policies required for all ECTP construction contracts.
11.09 Full Funding Grant Agreement
The ECTP is subject to the award of federal grant funds and to the execution of a Full Funding Grant Agreement (“FFGA”) by GCRTA and FTA. Prior to the execution of the FFGA, and to the extent required by law, regulations, or the terms of federal or state grants, CITY and GCRTA shall enter into a separate agreement to assure
CITY compliance with applicable FTA laws, regulations, circulars and agreements that apply to ECTP and GCRTA
including but not limited to the FTA Master Agreement, Certifications and Assurances, and the FFGA. The provisions contained in this paragraph shall apply to a CITY project only if such project is funded in part by federal funds. A copy of the FFGA shall be provided to the City Council liaison prior to execution by CITY.
11.10 Statutory Limitations
The provisions of 49 CFR, Section 18.36 or 49 CFR, sections 19.4-19.48 and Appendix A and with supplementary
regulations and directives particularly FTA Cir. 4220.1D entitled “Third Party Contracting Requirements” and revision thereof shall govern the procurement of goods and services by GCRTA along with any and all applicable
Ohio and federal law.
11.11 Notices and Approvals
When the approval of CITY is referenced in this Agreement, such approval shall be in writing and shall be
executed by CITY officials having responsibility of the particular subject matter. All notices required to be given
pursuant to this Agreement shall be given in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given on the date
delivered, if delivered personally, or if delivered to a nationally recognized overnight courier service, or, if mailed
by U.S. registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, and addressed as follows:
(a) Notice to GCRTA:

1240 W. 6th Street
Cleveland, Ohio 44113
Attention: Mr. Joseph A. Calabrese,
General Manager

(b) Notice to CITY:

Director of Public Service
601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 113
Cleveland, Ohio 44114

with copies to:

Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 220
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Attention: Frank Jackson, President

11.12 Advertising
In the event that GCRTA desires to place advertisements on Euclid Corridor BRT vehicles servicing the project area, all such advertisements must comply with federal, state and CITY requirements.
11.13 No Joint Venture
Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to constitute CITY and GCRTA as partners in a partnership or
joint venture for any purpose whatsoever. Neither party will represent that it has any authority to assume or
create any obligation, express or implied, on behalf of the other party.
11.14 Approvals by CITY
No inspections, certifications, design reviews, or other approvals by CITY shall operate to relieve GCRTA or
its contractors of their responsibility to design and construct the ECTP in conformance with this Agreement or
the terms, conditions, and specifications of any other agreement related to the ECTP. CITY shall not condition
its certifications or approvals such as to require non-conformance by GCRTA with this Agreement or the terms,
conditions, or specifications of any other agreement related to the ECTP.
11.15 Severability
Each provision of this Agreement shall be deemed to be a separate and individual provision, and if any court
of competent jurisdiction invalidates or otherwise renders unenforceable any provision, the invalidity or unenforceability of such provision shall not effect the enforceability of any remaining provisions or this Agreement,
which shall remain in full force and effect.
11.16 Architectural and Engineering Services
GCRTA shall use its best efforts to use architectural and engineering firms located in the City of Cleveland
to the fullest extent permissible by federal regulations.

1811

The City Record

156

July 23, 2003

ARTICLE XII
ENVIRONMENTAL AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION
GCRTA agrees that any ECTP construction that is performed by GCRTA will comply with all required environmental and historic preservation regulations and permit processes. GCRTA will be responsible for obtaining
all of the required approvals for construction performed by the GCRTA. CITY agrees that any construction performed by CITY will comply with all required environmental and historic preservation regulations and permit
processes. GCRTA shall report its findings and reports to the City Planning Committee of City Council and the
City Planning Director as to environmental and historic preservation conditions and regulations. The Director of
City Planning shall use good faith efforts to schedule a public hearing concerning its findings and reports prior
to the submission of such reports to regulatory agencies. CITY shall be responsible for obtaining all of the
required approvals for construction performed by CITY. In the event that there is a delay in any permit or other
approvals, the parties shall notify all representatives indicated in Articles 3.1 and 3.02 of this Agreement of this
agreement as soon as practical.
ARTICLE XIII
DEFAULT; REMEDIES FOR BREACH
If either party to this Agreement shall fail to observe or perform any of the terms of this Agreement and such
failure continues for a period of five business days after written notice of default is given by the non-defaulting parties, and the parties have been unable to resolve the issues through the process described in Article 11.06,
the non-defaulting party may, at its option, exercise concurrently or successively any one or more of the rights
and remedies it may have at law or in equity which may include:
(1) To enjoin any breach or threatened breach;
(2) To sue for the performance of any obligation, promise or agreement devolving upon the defaulting
party for performance or for damages for the nonperformance thereof, all without terminating this
Agreement;
(3) To terminate this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIV
BINDING AGREEMENT
All the terms, provisions and obligations of this Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their
successors or assigns.
ARTICLE XV
DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
The Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) program will be implemented and monitored by GCRTA in accordance with 49 CFR Part 26 and all applicable Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity laws, policies and directives that govern contracts that are executed with GCRTA. GCRTA as a FTA grantee, must comply with all Federal DBE program regulations to maintain its eligibility for FTA funding for ECTP and other projects. For all
ECTP construction contracts, GCRTA will provide CITY’s Director of the Office of Equal Opportunity with reports,
on a quarterly basis, or as required by the Director, on employment of Cleveland residents, contractor compliance
with DBE program requirements, participation of MBE/FBE firms as defined under CITY’s MBE/FBE program,
and other available related information upon CITY’s reasonable request.
ARTICLE XVI
RESIDENT HIRE LAW
This Agreement and the construction contracts for the ECTP shall be subject to Chapter 188 of the Codified
Ordinances regardless of the execution dates of this Agreement or any ECTP construction contract.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties hereto have caused these presents to be executed by their proper officials
the day and year first above written.
In the presence of

GREATER CLEVELAND REGIONAL
TRANSIT AUTHORITY

__________________________________________
(Witness)

__________________________________________
Joseph A. Calabrese
CEO and General Manager

__________________________________________
(Witness)
The legal form and correctness of this
instrument is hereby approved.

__________________________________________
Sheryl King Benford
Deputy General Manager-Legal

1812

The City Record

July 23, 2003

157
CITY OF CLEVELAND

__________________________________________

__________________________________________

(Witness)

Mark Ricchiuto
Director of Public Service

__________________________________________

__________________________________________

(Witness)

The legal form and correctness of this
instrument is hereby approved.

SUBODH CHANDRA
DIRECTOR OF LAW

__________________________________________
By:

Assistant Director of Law
City of Cleveland

EXHIBIT “A”
EUCLID CORRIDOR TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
Property Owned by City of Cleveland

1813

The City Record

158

July 23, 2003

EXHIBIT “B”
Form of Deed
OFFICIAL QUITCLAIM DEED
1. On _______________________, the Council of the City of Cleveland passed Ordinance No. ______________, attached
hereto as Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by reference, authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to sell certain City-owned real property.
2. On August 28, 1996, the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland adopted Resolution No. _____________,
attached hereto as Exhibit “B” and incorporated herein by reference, authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to proceed with sale to the Grantee named below upon payment of the consideration stated below.
NOW, THEREFORE, the CITY OF CLEVELAND, a municipal corporation in the State of Ohio (the “City”), for
the consideration of $1.00 and other valuable consideration, grants and quitclaims to ____________________, its successors and assigns (the “Grantee”) whose tax mailing address is _____________________, the real property described
in Exhibit “C” attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference (the “Property”).
This conveyance is made, notwithstanding the fact that valuable consideration has been paid, upon the express
condition subsequent that Grantee shall perform the following obligations, pursuant to an Interagency Agreement
between Grantor and Grantee dated ________________ (hereinafter “Agreement”):
(1) Within thirty-six (36) months of the date of the execution of this Deed by the Mayor, commence construction of the _______________, described more fully in Exhibit “D”, attached hereto and incorporated by reference (the “Improvements”); and
(2) Within five (5) years of the date of the execution of this Deed, complete construction of the Improvements.
If Grantee defaults in or violates any one or more of the obligations set forth above, and fails to cure such
default or violation within thirty (30) days after written notice of default by the City, then the City shall have
the right at its option, to re-enter and take possession of the Property and to terminate (and revest in the City)
the estate conveyed by this Deed, pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement; provided, however, that the conditions
subsequent created herein and any revesting of title as a result thereof shall always be subject to and limited
by, and shall not defeat, render invalid or limit in any way, the lien of any mortgagee financing the contraction
of Improvements to the Property. Grantee agrees that all Improvements shall attach immediately and become a
part of the Property, and that if City exercises its right of re-entry all right, title and interest in and to the
Improvements shall immediately vest in the City and Grantee shall have no claim for contribution or reimbursement
for the Improvements.
City’s right of re-entry and repossession of the Sale Parcel shall terminate upon Completion of Construction of
the Improvements in satisfaction of the requirements of the Agreement. Within fourteen (14) days of Completion
of Construction of the Improvements, City shall issue a certificate in recordable form stating that construction
has been completed in satisfaction of the requirements of the Agreement, and that City no longer possesses a
right of re-entry.
Grantee and City agree that the obligations of Grantee set forth herein shall also constitute covenants running
with the land of the Property both as to burdens and benefits. The City’s failure to exercise the right of re-entry
reserved herein shall not be construed to waive any rights the City may have to enforce Grantee’s obligations
through any and all rights and remedies which the City or its successors and assigns may have at law or in
equity for the enforcement of covenants. No waiver by the City at any time of any of Grantee’s obligations shall
be deemed or taken as a waiver at any time thereafter of the same or any other obligations of the strict and
prompt performance thereof. No waiver shall be valid against the City unless reduced to writing and signed by
an officer of the City duly empowered to execute same.
This conveyance is made further subject to the covenant that Grantee not use, or permit the use of, the Property
or any structure erected or to be erected thereon, for billboards or other outdoor advertising devices. City and
Grantee agree that violation of said covenant shall not entitle City to re-enter and take possession of Property
or otherwise terminate the estate conveyed to Grantee by this Deed.
The Property is conveyed to Grantee “as is.”
The City specifically reserves, and this conveyance is made expressly subject to, any easements of record in
favor of the City and in addition thereto such easements as are necessary for public utilities (including without
limitation, sanitary and storm sewers, electric, telephone and other transmission lines, cables, gas and water lines)
presently located on the Property.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City, by its Mayor on _________________________ and its Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on _________________________ has caused this instrument to be executed, and Grantee has
accepted this instrument, as evidenced by its duly authorized officer’s execution of Grantee’s Acceptance, set forth
below.

1814

The City Record

July 23, 2003

159

(BALANCE OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK)

Signed and acknowledged
In the presence of the
Following witnesses:

CITY OF CLEVELAND

__________________________________________

By:

__________________________________________
MAYOR JANE L. CAMPBELL

__________________________________________
(Print name)

__________________________________________

__________________________________________
(Print name)

__________________________________________

By:

__________________________________________
MYRNA BRANCHE,
COMMISSIONER OF
PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES

__________________________________________
(Print name)

__________________________________________

__________________________________________
(Print name)

STATE OF OHIO
COUNTY OF CUYAHOGA

)
)
)

SS:

Before me a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally appeared CITY OF CLEVELAND by
Jane L. Campbell, Mayor, who acknowledged that she did sign the foregoing Official Quitclaim Deed, and that
said signing is her free act and deed as said officer, and the free act and deed of the City of Cleveland.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and official seal at Cleveland, Ohio, this _______ day
of _______________, 200__.

__________________________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
My Commission Expires ____________

STATE OF OHIO
COUNTY OF CUYAHOGA

)
)
)

SS:

Before me a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally appeared CITY OF CLEVELAND by
Myrna Branche, Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, who acknowledged that she did sign the foregoing Official Quitclaim Deed, and that said signing is her free act and deed as said officer, and the free act and deed of
the City of Cleveland.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and official seal at Cleveland, Ohio, this __________
day of _______________, 200__.

__________________________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
My Commission Expires ____________

1815

The City Record

160

July 23, 2003

GRANTEE’S ACCEPTANCE
The above Deed, together with all terms and conditions set forth therein, are hereby accepted this ________ day
of ______________, 200__.

GRANTEE

STATE OF OHIO

By

__________________________________________

Its

__________________________________________

)
)

COUNTY OF CUYAHOGA

SS:

)

Before me a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally appeared the above-named Grantee
____________________ by ____________________, who acknowledged that s/he did sign the foregoing instrument, and
that the same is his/her free act and deed personally and as said officer, and the free act and deed of said
association.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and official seal at Cleveland, Ohio, this _________
day of _______________, 200__.

__________________________________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
My Commission Expires _____________

This instrument prepared by:

__________________________________________
Assistant Director of Law
City of Cleveland (Grantor)
ALL EXHIBITS ARE ON FILE WITH CLEVELAND CITY COUNCIL
IN FILE NUMBER ___________
Section 2. That the Director of Public Service shall utilize best efforts to notify entities with infrastructure in
the right-of-way of the dates that ECTP will be under construction and encourage such entities to perform maintenance functions and/or repairs during a time that precedes the construction of the ECTP.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to issue GCRTA an encroachment permit
(easement), prepared by the Director of Law, for the Transit Strips. The encroachment permit may be terminated only for one of the following reasons: (1) in the event that GCRTA uses the Transit Strips for other than
public transit and incidental related purposes, (2) if GCRTA ceases use of public transportation operations in all
or any significant portion of the Transit Strips available for its use for a period exceeding six (6) months after
revenue service begins, or (3) the ECTP is abandoned before service begins. “Transit Strips” shall mean all Center Median Bus Stations, median strips and all dedicated bus lanes (as depicted in detail on the Sixty Percent
Documents) located within the rights-of-way of the Euclid Avenue Bus Rapid Transit Improvements as defined
in Article II. Termination for one of the above reasons shall be effective upon legislative action. Nothing herein
shall be construed to impair or limit the City’s rights and obligations to preserve and maintain the public rightsof-way in trust for public purposes.
[INSERT LEGAL]
Section 4. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary
to exercise the authority granted by this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1816

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 931-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Hough Avenue to
Bruce A. Jones.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 104-21-029,
as more fully described below, to
Bruce A. Jones.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-21-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 117, 118 and 119 in Park
Realty Company’s Re-Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 340 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 26 of Maps, Page
30 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., at the Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to
Louis Cowan by deed dated February l1, 1920 and recorded in Volume
2376, Page 453 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of Hough Avenue,
N.E., 94.70 feet to the Southeasterly
corner of land conveyed to Fannie
Abrams by deed dated March 31, 1920
and recorded in Volume 2376, Page
454 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of land so conveyed to Fannie
Abrams about 50 feet to the Easterly line of said Sublot No. 119; thence
Northerly along the Easterly line of
said Sublot No. 119, 50 feet; thence
Westerly
and
parallel
with the
Northerly line of Hough Avenue,
N.E., 95 feet to the Easterly line of
land conveyed to Louis Cowan, as
aforesaid; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of land so conveyed to
Louis Cowan, 100 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months

The City Record
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 996-03.
By Council Members Coats, White
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 129.29, 129.291, and
129.292 relating to contracts for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 129.29, 129.291, and 129.292, to
read as follows:
Section 129.29 Purchase of Catch
Basin Debris Disposal
(a) That the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
standard purchase or requirement
contracts duly let to the lowest and
best bidders after competitive bidding, for the labor and materials
necessary to dispose of catch basin
debris citywide, for terms of one
year as determined by the Director
of Public Utilities to be necessary to
the operation of the Division of
Water Pollution Control. Any purchases made under this section shall
be made by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies and paid

1817

161
from
the
annual
appropriations
made for this purpose.
(b) As to requirement contracts,
alternate bids for a period less than
the specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term. The Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage
to the City. For purposes of this section, a financial advantage shall be
determined by the Director of Public Utilities by comparing the bids
received for both terms.
Section 129.291 Purchase of Repair
and Construction of Catch Basins
and Manholes
(a) That the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
public improvement by requirement
contracts of constructing and repairing catch basins and manholes duly
let to the lowest responsible bidder,
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement for terms
of one year. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Any purchases made under
this section shall be made by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies and paid from the annual
appropriations made for this purpose.
(b) Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the requirements for the entire term. The
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into one or more
requirement contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage
to the City. For purposes of this section, a financial advantage shall be
determined by the Director of Public Utilities by comparing the bids
received for both terms.
Section 129.292 Purchase of Construction and Installation of Replacement Sewers and Repair and
Rehabilitation of Existing Sewers
(a) That the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
public
improvement
contract
by
requirement contracts for the public
improvement of constructing and
installing replacement sewers and
repairing and rehabilitation of existing sewers duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder, after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement for terms of one year.
Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Any
purchases made under this section
shall be made by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies and paid
from
the
annual
appropriations
made for this purpose.
(b) Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commis-

162

The City Record

sioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into one or more
requirement contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage
to the City. For purposes of this section, a financial advantage shall be
determined by the Director of Public Utilities by comparing the bids
received for both terms.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies
under
a
requisition
against the contract or contracts
certified
by
the
Director
of
Finance. (RL 129835)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 999-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to maintain,
repair, and replace substation equipment, including but not limited to
batteries, switchgear, transformers
and circuit breakers, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
maintain, repair, and replace substation equipment, including but not
limited
to
batteries,
switchgear,
transformers and circuit breakers,
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a
period less than two years may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The contract or contracts authorized
by this ordinance shall provide that
they
are
subject
to
the
City’s
employment goals for MBEs, FBEs,
and City residents in effect at the
time the contract or contracts are
bid.

Ord. No. 1009-03.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the U.S. Department of Justice,
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms for the 2003 Gang Resistance Education and Training Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $95,051, from the U.S.
Department of Justice, Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to
conduct the 2003 Gang Resistance
Education and Training (“G.R.E.A.T.”)
Program; that the Director of Public Safety is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 1009-03-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
is
approved
in
all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1818

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1012-03.
By Council Members Reed and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Federal Emergency Management
Agency for the 2003 FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant; and to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts necessary for the purchase
of equipment and training necessary
to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the amount of
$519,496, from Federal Emergency
Management Agency to conduct the
2003 FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant; that the Director of Public
Safety is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary
to receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
application for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 1012-03-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, including the obligation
of the City of Cleveland to provide
a cash match in the sum of $222,640,
payable from Fund No. 11 SF 006, is
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if the extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the necessary items of equipment
and training needed to implement
the program. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than the grant term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the
contracts shall be charged against
the proper appropriation accounts
and the Director of Finance shall
certify the amount of the initial purchase,
which
purchase,
together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
requisition against the contract or
contracts certified by the Director.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

July 23, 2003

The City Record

163

Ord. No. 1022-03.
By Council Member Conwell.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property on the south side of St. Clair Avenue between East 115th and
East 117th Streets to a General Retail Business District (Map Change No. 2080, Sheet No. 8).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Centerline of St. Clair Ave. (80 feet wide) at its Intersection with the Centerline of East 115th
Street (50 feet wide);
Thence Northeasterly along the Centerline of said St. Clair Ave. to its Intersection with the Centerline of East
117th Street (50 feet wide);
Thence Southerly along the Centerline of said East 117th Street to its Intersection with the Easterly Prolongation of the Northerly Line of Sublot No. 57 in The Lowrie Bros. Homedale Allotment as shown by the Recorded Plat in Volume 28, Page 12 of the Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along the said Easterly Prolongation and the Northerly Line of said Sublot No.57 to the Northwesterly Corner Thereof;
Thence Southerly along the Westerly Line of said Sublot No. 57 to the Southwesterly Corner Thereof;
Thence Westerly, Northerly and Westerly along the Southerly Line of Sublot No. 60 in the said Lowrie Bros.
Homedale Allotment to a Southwesterly Corner Thereof;
Thence Northerly along the Westerly Line of said Sublot No. 60 to its Intersection with the Southerly Line of
P.P.N. 110-02-049 as Conveyed to Ali Dawud by Instrument recorded in A.F.N. 200007070003 of the Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along the Southerly Line of said P.P.N. 110-02-049 and its Westerly Prolongation to the Centerline of East 115th Street as aforesaid;
Thence Northerly along the Centerline of said East 115th Street to its Intersection with Centerline of St. Clair
Ave. as aforesaid and The Place of Beginning;
and as outlined and shaded on the attached map is changed to a General Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2080, Sheet No. 8, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Sketch showing change in the zoning of property on the south side of St. Clair Avenue between East 115th and
East 117th Streets to a General Retail Business District (Map Change No. 2080, Sheet No. 8).

Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective August 25, 2003.

1819

164
Ord. No. 1150-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to repair or
install fencing at various facilities,
for the Division of Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of labor
and materials to repair or install
fencing at various facilities, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than one year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The contract or contracts authorized
by this ordinance shall provide that
they
are
subject
to
the
City’s
employment goals for MBEs, FBEs,
and City residents in effect at the
time the contract or contracts are
bid.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 137222)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1151-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and

The City Record
materials to repair and replace various water, sewer and gas lines damaged by pole replacement, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials to repair and
replace various water, sewer and
gas lines damaged by pole replacement, in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than two years may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The contract or contracts authorized
by this ordinance shall provide that
they
are
subject
to
the
City’s
employment goals for MBEs, FBEs,
and City residents in effect at the
time the contract or contracts are
bid.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 129846)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1152-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to provide snow removal
services at various locations, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.

1820

July 23, 2003
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials to provide snow
removal services at various locations, in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than two years may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The contract or contracts authorized
by this ordinance shall provide that
they
are
subject
to
the
City’s
employment goals for MBEs, FBEs,
and City residents in effect at the
time the contract or contracts are
bid.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies
under
a
requisition
against the contract or contracts
certified
by
the
Director
of
Finance. (RL 129845)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1154-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement
contracts
of
labor,
material and services necessary to
maintain outdoor residential lighting and energy efficient programs,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

July 23, 2003
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make
one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
period of two years of the necessary
items of labor, material and services
necessary to maintain outdoor residential lighting and energy efficient
programs,
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than two years may be taken
if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term. The
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall provide that
they are subject to the City’s employment goals for MBEs, FBEs, and
City residents in effect at the time
the contract or contracts are bid.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 122567)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1156-03.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale by the
City of not to exceed $160,000,000
Airport System Revenue Bonds to
refund outstanding Revenue Bonds
issued for the purpose of improving
the Airport System and to pay costs
incurred to acquire property for the
Airport System; authorizing Hedge
Agreements; authorizing Supplemental
Indentures,
Bond
Purchase
Agreements, Official Statements and
other agreements related to those
Bonds; and authorizing and approving related matters.

The City Record
Whereas, under authority of the
Constitution of the State of Ohio, the
Charter of the City, Ordinance No.
1773-A-76, passed by the Council of
the City on August 16, 1976 and the
Trust Indenture dated as of November 1, 1976 (together with Ordinance
No. 1773-A-76, the “Original Indenture”) between the City and J.P.
Morgan Trust Company, National
Association, successor to The Cleveland Trust Company, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), the City has issued various series of Revenue Bonds for the
Airport System, of which $909,152,181
aggregate principal amount is currently outstanding; and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance of
Additional Revenue Bonds under the
Original Indenture, as supplemented
and amended, to refund certain of
the Outstanding Revenue Bonds and
to provide definitive financing for a
portion of the costs incurred by the
City in 1999 to acquire certain property for future airport expansion
(referred to as the IX Center property), those costs having been funded on an interim basis from the proceeds of $44,780,000 of notes that
mature on November 17, 2003 (the
“Project”); and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the City to enter
into interest rate swap, swaption
and other hedging arrangements
with respect to the Outstanding Revenue Bonds and the Additional Revenue Bonds as provided in this Ordinance; and
Whereas, the City may obtain
debt service savings with respect to
certain of the Outstanding Revenue
Bonds by entering into a certain
type of hedging arrangement (referred to in this Ordinance as a
“Swaption”) with a financial institution
as
counterparty
having
terms that provide for an upfront
payment to the City by the counterparty in consideration of the
City’s giving the counterparty the
option to make effective at a future
date an interest rate exchange
transaction with the City in which
the City will make payments to the
counterparty at a fixed rate and the
counterparty will make payments
to the City at a variable rate, in
each case calculated in reference to
an amount equal to the principal
amount outstanding, from time to
time,
of
refunding
obligations
(referred to in this Ordinance as
the “Swaption Refunding Bonds”)
to be issued by the City to refund
those Outstanding Revenue Bonds
maturing on and after the later of
the date of exercise of the option
granted to the counterparty by the
Swaption or the date on which
those Outstanding Revenue Bonds
may be optionally redeemed by the
City (referred to in this Ordinance
as the “Swaption Refunded Bonds”);
and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that authorizing the
Additional Revenue Bonds is neces-

1821

165
sary to provide definitive financing
for the Project prior to the maturity of the outstanding notes and to
enable the Airport System to take
advantage of current favorable market
conditions
to
refinance
or
restructure the debt service on certain Outstanding Revenue Bonds;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions.
In addition to the words and
terms defined in the Original Indenture, as amended and supplemented
by the First through Fourth Supplemental Indentures, and as to be further amended and supplemented as
provided in this Ordinance, the following words and terms shall have
the following meanings, unless the
context or use indicates a contrary
meaning or intention.
“Authorized
Additional
Bonds”
means the Series 2003 Bonds and the
Swaption Refunding Bonds authorized by this Ordinance to be issued
as Additional Revenue Bonds under
the Indenture.
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”
means, with respect to the Authorized Additional Bonds, one or more
Bond
Purchase
Agreements
between the City and the Original
Purchasers authorized in Section 6
of this Ordinance.
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system, as
applicable, under which (a) the
ownership of beneficial interests in
Revenue Bonds and Bond service
charges may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (b) physical Revenue Bond certificates in
fully registered form are registered
only in the name of a Depository or
its nominee as registered owner,
with the physical Bond certificates
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry system
is maintained by and is the responsibility of the Depository and not
the City or the Trustee. The book
entry is the record that identifies,
and records the transfer of the interest of, the owners of beneficial
(book entry) interests in the Revenue Bonds.
“Certificate
of
Award”
means,
with respect to the Authorized Additional Bonds, one or more certificates delivered by the Director of
Finance pursuant to Section 6 of
this Ordinance providing for the
final terms of the Authorized Additional Bonds of any series consistent
with the requirements of the Indenture and this Ordinance.
“Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
including, when appropriate, the
statutory predecessor of the Code
and all applicable Treasury regulations.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance the security or liquidity of
any Authorized Additional Bonds or
any Hedge Agreements.
“Depository” shall mean any securities depository that is a clearing

166
agency under federal law operating
and maintaining, with its participants or otherwise, a book entry
system to record beneficial ownership of Revenue Bonds or Bond service charges, and to effect transfers
of Revenue Bonds, in book entry
form, and includes and means initially The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New York, New York.
“Financial Advisor” means as to
any Authorized Additional Bonds or
Hedge Agreement, any financial
advisory firm or firms retained by
the City from time to time, in connection with the Authorized Additional Bonds or any Hedge Agreement.
“Hedge Agreement” has the meaning given in Section 3 of this Ordinance.
“Indenture” means the Original
Indenture as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental
Trust Indenture dated as of April 1,
1990, the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture dated as of August 1,
1994, the Third Supplemental Trust
Indenture dated as of November 1,
1997, and the Fourth Supplemental
Trust Indenture dated as of February 1, 2001, as the same may be further amended and supplemented.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to the Authorized Additional Bonds, UBS Financial Services
Inc., A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.,
NatCity Investments, Inc., Jackson
Securities, LLC and Loop Capital
Markets, LLC.
“Outstanding Revenue Bonds”, as
used in this Ordinance, means those
Revenue Bonds outstanding under
the Indenture on the date of introduction of this Ordinance and consisting specifically of the following:
the City’s Airport System Revenue
Bonds, Series 1990B (outstanding as
of July 1, 2003 in the Appreciated
Principal Amount of $21,486,624),
Series 1994A (currently outstanding
in the amount of $72,250,000), Series
1994C (currently outstanding in the
amount of $1,655,000), Series 1997A
(currently outstanding in the amount
of $164,315,000), Series 1997B (currently outstanding in the amount of
$15,370,000), Series 1997C (currently
outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$13,200,000), Series 1997D (currently
outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$41,805,000), Series 1997E (currently
outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$18,880,000), Series 2000A (currently
outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$360,880,000), Series 2000B (currently
outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$63,310,000), and Series 2000C (currently outstanding in the amount of
$149,000,000).
“Refunded Bonds” means those
Outstanding Revenue Bonds identified in a Certificate of Award to be
refunded from a portion of the proceeds of the Series 2003 Bonds.
“Series 2003 Bonds” means the Airport System Revenue Bonds, Series
2003, authorized to be issued under
this Ordinance, and in particular
Section 2, which will constitute
Additional Revenue Bonds and Revenue Bonds under the Indenture.
“Supplemental Indenture” means
each Supplemental Trust Indenture

The City Record
delivered to supplement and amend
the Indenture, to further provide for
the terms and security of one or
more series of Authorized Additional Bonds.
“Swaption” has the meaning given
in the fourth preamble of this Ordinance.
“Swaption Refunded Bonds” means
those Outstanding Revenue Bonds
and/or Series 2003 Bonds identified
in a Hedge Agreement to be refunded by a series of Swaption Refunding Bonds pursuant to a Swaption.
“Swaption Refunding Bonds” means
the Revenue Bonds authorized to be
issued under this Ordinance, and in
particular Section 4, which will constitute Additional Revenue Bonds
and Revenue Bonds under the Indenture.
For purposes of comparing this
Ordinance with the Series 1976 Ordinance, the following terms shall
have the same meaning: “City” and
“Issuer”, “Council” and “Governing
Body”, “Director of Finance” and
“Fiscal Officer”, and “Ordinance”
and “Bond Legislation”.
Section 2. Authorization of the
Series 2003 Bonds.
This Council finds and determines it is necessary and proper
and in the best interest of the City
to issue the Series 2003 Bonds for
the purpose of paying costs of the
Project and refunding one or more
series of the Outstanding Revenue
Bonds, or designated maturities
thereof. The principal amount of
each series of Series 2003 Bonds is
to be the amount set forth in the
Certificate of Award authorized in
Section 6. The aggregate principal
amount of Series 2003 Bonds issued
shall not exceed $160,000,000 and
shall be the amount determined by
the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to be necessary (i) to
retire the interim notes issued to
pay costs of the Project, (ii) to
refund the Outstanding Revenue
Bonds to obtain debt service savings and/or to restructure Bond service charges, (iii) to fund any
deposits to the Special Funds under
the Indenture, including any capitalized interest, (iv) to pay costs of
any Credit Support Instruments, (v)
to pay amounts owed under Hedge
Agreements, and (vi) to pay costs
of issuing the Series 2003 Bonds
and refunding the Outstanding Revenue Bonds designated in the Certificate of Award. The proceeds
from the sale of each series of
Series 2003 Bonds shall be allocated, deposited and applied as provided in Section 7 of this Ordinance.
The Series 2003 Bonds may be
issued in one or more separate
series, each bearing a distinctive
designation, provided that the Series
2003 Bonds of each series satisfy the
requirements of this Ordinance and
the Indenture. Separate series of
Series 2003 Bonds may be issued at
the same or different times. The
Series 2003 Bonds of each series
shall be designated as provided in
the applicable Certificate of Award
and, if issued after December 31,
2003, shall refer to the year in which

1822

July 23, 2003
issued instead of 2003. A separate
Certificate of Award and a separate
Supplemental
Indenture
may
be
delivered for each series. In each
case there shall be included in the
costs funded the costs of issuance of
the Series 2003 Bonds and any
required deposits to the Special
Funds attributable to the Series 2003
Bonds. The Series 2003 Bonds shall
constitute Revenue Bonds for all
purposes of the Indenture.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Series 2003
Bonds to finance or refinance costs
of Airport System facilities serves
proper, public, municipal purposes
by providing air travel facilities
needed by the people of the City of
Cleveland. The Project advances the
economic welfare of the City by providing for future expansion of the
Airport System when circumstances
so warrant, thereby increasing and
promoting commerce by providing
necessary transportation for individuals and commercial enterprises
purchasing and selling services and
products in northeastern Ohio, and
the Project thereby creates and preserves jobs and employment opportunities in the City and improves
the economic welfare of the City.
Section 3. Authorization of Hedging Arrangements.
This Council finds that by engaging
in
interest
rate
hedging
arrangements, from time to time, the
City can, in effect, convert interest
on all or a portion of the Revenue
Bonds under the Indenture from a
fixed rate to a variable rate, or from
a variable rate to a fixed rate, and
thereby may reduce its cost of borrowing by optimizing the relative
amounts of fixed and variable rate
obligations from time to time and
minimizing the risk of variations in
its debt service costs. To permit the
City to have the flexibility to undertake interest rate swap, swaption,
rate cap, rate collar and other hedging transactions from time to time,
and to establish the procedures for
approving those transactions, this
Council authorizes the signing and
delivery of one or more agreements
(each, a “Hedge Agreement”) and
any related agreements necessary
for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by each Hedge
Agreement. The authorizations in
this Section 3 are supplemental to
and not in derogation of any authority provided by any other ordinance
of this Council concerning hedging
arrangements.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is to the financial advantage of the City and in the City’s
best
interests
that
a
hedging
arrangement be undertaken by the
City with respect to any Revenue
Bonds issued or to be issued under
the
Indenture,
the
Director
of
Finance may authorize one or more
interest rate hedge transactions in
accordance
with
the
applicable
Hedge Agreement; provided that (a)
the maximum aggregate notional
amount of interest rate swap or
other
hedging
transactions
out-

July 23, 2003
standing at any one time, net of offsetting interest rate swap or other
hedging
transactions,
shall
not
exceed twenty percent (20%) of the
aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Revenue Bonds (as defined
in the Original Indenture), (b) the
counterparty shall be rated at the
time of signing the Hedge Agreement not lower than A+ or A1 by
at least one rating agency or its
obligations under the Hedge Agreement shall be guaranteed or insured
by an entity rated at the time of
signing the Hedge Agreement not
lower than A+ or A1 by at least one
rating agency, and (c) the term of
each hedge transaction shall not
exceed the final maturity of the
Revenue Bonds to which the hedge
relates or (in the case of an option)
will relate.
The Director of Finance shall
negotiate the terms of each Hedge
Agreement with a counterparty satisfying the credit criteria in this
Ordinance. In the case of any Hedge
Agreement involving a Swaption,
the City shall receive a written opinion of a Financial Advisor that the
upfront payment to be made by the
counterparty to the City, or by the
City to the counterparty, shall be in
an amount that is fair value for the
Hedge Agreement, given the credit
of the counterparties and the terms
and conditions of the Hedge Agreement. The Director of Finance shall
determine the terms and conditions
of the Hedge Agreement, including
without limitation, the time or times
and procedures for the exercise by
the counterparty or the City, as the
case may be, of its option under the
Hedge
Agreement,
whether
the
obligations of the City under the
Hedge Agreement shall be secured
by a Credit Support Instrument, and
the rates to be paid by the counterparty to the City and by the City to
the counterparty under the Hedge
Agreement in the event of the exercise of the option. The approval of
each interest rate hedge transaction
by the Director of Finance shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery of the applicable
Hedge Agreement by the Director of
Finance.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from the Airport Revenues and may
be payable also from other funds
permitted by law to be used for the
purpose, as identified by the Director of Finance in the Hedge Agreement.
Those
payments
may
be
secured by a pledge of Airport Revenues, to the extent permitted by
the Indenture, all as determined by
the Director of Finance and set
forth in the Hedge Agreement. The
obligation of the City to make payments under any Hedge Agreement
does not and shall not represent or
constitute a general obligation, debt,
bonded indebtedness or a pledge of
the faith and credit of the City or
the State of Ohio. Nothing gives any
party to any Hedge Agreement the
right to have excises, ad valorem or
other taxes levied by the City or the
State of Ohio for the payment of any
amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.

The City Record
Section 4. Authorization of Swaption Refunding Bonds.
In the event that the City enters
into a Hedge Agreement under
authority of this Ordinance that
involves
a
Swaption
or
other
arrangement requiring the City to
issue Revenue Bonds upon the exercise by the counterparty to the
Hedge Agreement of an option, the
City shall issue Swaption Refunding
Bonds for the purpose of refinancing the Swaption Refunded Bonds
identified in the Hedge Agreement.
The aggregate principal amount of
Swaption Refunding Bonds to be
issued shall not exceed $80,000,000
and shall be the amount determined
in the Certificate of Award by the
Director of Finance to be the aggregate principal amount of Swaption
Refunding Bonds that are required
to be issued, taking into account
any other funds available to the
City for the purpose, in order to
refund
the
Swaption
Refunded
Bonds, to establish any reserves
required under the Indenture, to pay
costs of any Credit Support Instruments, to pay expenses relating to
the
refunding
of
the
Swaption
Refunded Bonds and the issuance of
the Swaption Refunding Bonds and
otherwise to effect the purpose for
which
the
Swaption
Refunding
Bonds are to be issued. Notwithstanding that limitation, the maximum aggregate principal amount of
Swaption Refunding Bonds may be
increased to include the amount of
any termination payment and related incremental costs of any reserves
required under the Indenture, costs
of any Credit Support Instruments
and costs of issuance in the event
that that Director of Finance determines, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, that it is to
the financial advantage of the City
and in the City’s best interests to
terminate the Hedge Agreement.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Swaption
Refunding Bonds to refund the
Swaption Refunded Bonds serves
proper, public, municipal purposes
by optimizing financing arrangements for air travel facilities needed by the people of the City of
Cleveland.
Section 5. Terms of Additional
Bonds.
The Authorized Additional Bonds
shall contain the terms provided in
or
determined
pursuant
to,
the
Indenture,
this
Ordinance,
the
applicable Certificate of Award and
the applicable Supplemental Indenture. Each series of Authorized
Additional Bonds may be secured by
a separate Supplemental Indenture
or a single Supplemental Indenture
may secure more than one series of
Authorized Additional Bonds.
(a) General. In the event that the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, determines that the City’s best
interests will be served by causing
a series of Authorized Additional
Bonds to be obligations bearing
interest at variable interest rates,
then the Director of Finance is
authorized to so specify in the Cer-

1823

167
tificate of Award for that series. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the Authorized Additional Bonds of that
series shall be determined as provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture, whether by auction,
by reference to a market index, by
a remarketing agent or otherwise;
provided that no series of variable
rate Authorized Additional Bonds
shall bear interest at a rate in
excess of fifteen percent (15%) per
year. Notwithstanding that limitation, a series of Authorized Additional Bonds held by a provider of
a Credit Support Instrument may
bear interest at a rate not in
excess
of
twenty-five
percent
(25%) per year as provided in the
agreement with the provider of the
Credit
Support
Instrument.
The
Director of Finance may determine
that the terms of a variable rate
series
of
Authorized
Additional
Bonds may or may not permit the
holders to tender their variable
rate Authorized Additional Bonds
for purchase by the City. If the
Director of Finance designates any
series
of
Authorized
Additional
Bonds as variable rate Authorized
Additional Bonds, and if the Holders of that series of Authorized
Additional Bonds are to be entitled
to tender those Authorized Additional Bonds for purchase, then the
Director of Finance shall also designate
for
those
variable
rate
Authorized Additional Bonds (and
may designate others, from time to
time, in substitution therefor), the
tender agent or agents and the
remarketing
agent
or
agents,
which designations shall be based
on the determination of the Director of Finance, based on the written advice of a Financial Advisor,
that the parties so designated possess the requisite resources and
experience to provide the services
required of them and that the
terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide such
services are fair and commercially
reasonable.
The
Director
of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the Authorized Additional Bonds, and from time to time
thereafter so long as the Authorized Additional Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments, tender agents
(which may be the Trustee), remarketing agents (which may be any
of the Original Purchasers) and
others as may be determined by the
Director of Finance to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders
the right of tender and providing
for payment of the purchase price
of, or debt service on, the variable
rate Authorized Additional Bonds.
In the event the variable rate
Authorized Additional Bonds are
issued as auction rate obligations,
the Director of Finance is authorized to enter into agreements,
from time to time, with auction
agents and others, or to cause the

168
Trustee to enter into those agreements, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor that the parties so designated possess the requisite resources and experience to
provide the services required of
them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed
to provide such services are fair
and commercially reasonable.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance
of any series of Authorized Additional Bonds, and regardless of
whether that series of Authorized
Additional Bonds bears interest at
variable or fixed rates, is authorized to contract for a Credit Support Instrument, and to pay the
costs of it from proceeds of the
Authorized Additional Bonds, if he
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the Credit Support Instrument will
result in a savings in the cost of
the financing to the City.
(b) Form; Exchange and Transfer.
All Authorized Additional Bonds
shall be issued in fully registered
form. The Authorized Additional
Bonds initially shall be delivered
only in book-entry form, shall be
registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered
owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository, and shall not
be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another
Depository or its nominee) without
further action by the City pursuant
to the provisions of the Supplemental Indenture. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Original Indenture, no Authorized Additional Bonds shall be exchanged for
or transferable into a coupon Revenue Bond or Bonds unless and until
the
Indenture
shall
have
been
amended in accordance with the
terms
thereof
to
permit
such
exchanges or transfers. To the
extent that the Original Indenture
(particularly, but without limitation,
Section 2.05 thereof) permits fully
registered Revenue Bonds to be
exchanged for or transferred into
coupon Revenue Bonds or Revenue
Bonds payable to bearer, then the
Original Indenture is hereby amended to prohibit such exchanges or
transfers for the Authorized Additional Bonds unless and until the
Indenture shall have been amended
in accordance with the terms thereof to permit such exchanges or
transfers.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Authorized Additional Bonds
of any series for use in a book entry
system, the Director of Finance and
the Trustee may attempt to establish a securities depository/book
entry
relationship
with
another
qualified Depository. If the Director
of Finance and the Trustee do not
or are unable to do so, the Director
of Finance and the Trustee, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit withdrawal of the Authorized
Additional Bonds of any series from
the Depository, and authenticate

The City Record
and deliver registered Bond certificates to the assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost
and expense (including any costs of
printing), if the event is not the
result of action or inaction of the
City, of those persons requesting
such issuance.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Director of Port Control or any one of them are authorized and directed to the extent necessary or required to enter into any
agreements determined necessary in
connection with the book entry system for the Authorized Additional
Bonds, after determining (as evidenced by their signing) that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
under the Indenture.
(c) Dates; Denominations. The
Authorized Additional Bonds
of
each series shall be dated as of the
date or dates provided in the Certificate of Award for that series.
The Authorized Additional Bonds
of each series shall be issued in
the denominations permitted in the
Supplemental Indenture for that
series.
(d) Interest and Place of Pay ment. The Authorized Additional
Bonds of each series shall bear
interest at their respective interest
rates specified in the Certificate of
Award (or, in the case of variable
rate Authorized Additional Bonds,
determined pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture) for that series.
The Authorized Additional Bonds of
each series shall bear interest from
the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided
for or, if no interest has been paid
or duly provided for, from their date.
The principal and any redemption
premium and the interest payable on
each series of Authorized Additional Bonds shall be payable at the
times, to the persons and in the
manner set forth in, or referenced
by,
the
Supplemental
Indenture,
including, without limitation, provisions
thereof
permitting
special
arrangements for payments to the
Depository.
(e) Maturities. The Authorized
Additional Bonds of each series
shall mature on the principal retirement dates provided in the Certificate of Award.
(f) Optional and Mandatory Re demption. The Authorized Additional Bonds of each series may be
subject
to
redemption
prior
to
maturity at the option of the City,
if and to the extent so provided in
the Certificate of Award for that
series. Any Authorized Additional
Bonds so determined to be subject
to optional redemption and maturing by their stated terms after the
earliest optional redemption date
shall be subject to redemption at
the option of the City on or after
the earliest optional redemption
date in whole or in part on any
date at the redemption prices provided in the Certificate of Award
and in accordance with the applicable Supplemental Indenture and
the
Indenture.
The
Authorized
Additional Bonds designated in the
Certificate of Award as term bonds

1824

July 23, 2003
subject to mandatory sinking fund
redemption shall be redeemed prior
to maturity on each mandatory
redemption date designated in the
Certificate of Award in the aggregate amount of the sinking fund
installment to be paid on such
mandatory redemption date, all as
provided
in
the
Certificate
of
Award and in accordance with the
Supplemental Indenture.
(g) Signing. The Authorized Additional Bonds shall be signed by
the Mayor and the Director of
Finance, and approved as to form by
the Director of Law, provided that
any or all of such signatures may
be facsimiles, and shall bear the corporate seal of the City or a facsimile thereof.
(h) Numbering. The Authorized
Additional Bonds shall be numbered
as determined by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. Award and Sale of
Authorized Additional Bonds.
The Authorized Additional Bonds
shall be sold to the Original Purchasers pursuant to one or more
Bond Purchase Agreements substantially in the form of the Bond
Purchase Agreement now on file
with the Clerk in File No. 1156-03A with such changes not inconsistent with the Indenture or this
Ordinance and not substantially
adverse to the City as may be
approved by the officer signing the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
on
behalf of the City. The approval of
any changes by that officer and
the determination by that officer
that the change is not substantially adverse to the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
and delivery of the Bond Purchase
Agreement by that officer. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver the Certificate of Award
and Bond Purchase Agreement for
the Authorized Additional Bonds of
each series, one or more of which
shall specify and set forth the following details with respect to the
Authorized Additional Bonds:
(a)
the
aggregate
principal
amount; provided that amount shall
not exceed $160,000,000 with respect
to the Series 2003 Bonds issued to
pay costs of the Project and to
refund Outstanding Revenue Bonds
and (except as otherwise permitted
by Section 4) shall not exceed
$80,000,000 with respect to Swaption
Refunding Bonds issued to refund
the Swaption Refunded Bonds, provided, further, that the aggregate
principal amount of Series 2003
bonds and swaption refunding bond
issued under authority of this ordinance shall not exceed $160,000,000
assuming in each case that the
Authorized Additional Bonds are to
be initially offered to the public at
a price at least equal to their aggregate principal amount, but, if any of
the Authorized Additional Bonds are
to be initially offered to the public
at any net original issue discount,
the maximum aggregate principal
amount of Authorized Additional
Bonds shall be increased over that
amount by an amount equal to the
aggregate original issue discount

July 23, 2003
net of the aggregate original issue
premium;
(b) the purchase price to be paid
to the City by the Original Purchasers, which amount shall be not
less than: (i) 97% of the amount
determined by subtracting from the
aggregate principal amount of the
Authorized Additional Bonds any
aggregate original issue discount
net of any aggregate original issue
premium with respect to the Authorized Additional Bonds, plus (ii) any
accrued interest on the Authorized
Additional Bonds from their date to
the date of their delivery to the
Original Purchasers;
(c) whether any Authorized Additional Bonds are subject to optional
redemption prior to maturity, the
earliest optional redemption date for
those Authorized Additional Bonds
subject to prior redemption, which
shall be not later than ten years
from the first interest payment date
of the applicable series, and the
applicable redemption price, which
shall be not greater than 102% of
the principal amount redeemed;
(d) the dates on which principal
of the Authorized Additional Bonds
is to be paid, which shall be not
later than thirty (30) years from
their respective dates of issuance,
with an identification of whether
the payment is due by stated maturity or by mandatory sinking fund
redemption of
Authorized Additional Bonds of a particular maturity;
(e) the interest rates to be borne
by Authorized Additional Bonds
bearing interest at a fixed rate, the
weighted average of which shall
not exceed eight percent (8%) as
to Authorized Additional Bonds of
any series and the method by
which the interest rate is to be
determined for Authorized Additional Bonds bearing interest at
variable rates, consistent with Section
5
(Authorized
Additional
Bonds of the same series and same
maturity may bear interest at different interest rates);
(f) in the case of Series 2003
Bonds, the particular Outstanding
Revenue Bonds or portions thereof
to be Refunded Bonds and, in the
case of Swaption Refunding Bonds,
the particular Outstanding Revenue
Bonds or Series 2003 Bonds or portions thereof to be Swaption Refunded Bonds;
(g) the title and series designation for the Authorized Additional
Bonds;
(h) any Renewal and Replacement Payment attributable to the
Authorized Additional Bonds;
(i) the amount of proceeds of the
sale of the Authorized Additional
Bonds to be deposited in the Bond
Service Reserve Fund in order to
cause the balance therein to equal
the Required Bond Service Reserve,
if and to the extent required by the
applicable Supplemental Indenture,
and any determination (as permitted by Section 3.02(h) of the First
Supplemental
Indenture)
as
to
whether there shall be special
reserve fund for the Authorized
Additional Bonds of any series, separate
from
the
Bond
Service

The City Record
Reserve Fund, or a municipal bond
insurance policy, bank letter or
line of credit, or other form of credit or liquidity facility enhancing
the security for Authorized Additional Bonds of that series in lieu
of a funded reserve fund;
(j) any other deposits required to
be made to the Special Funds;
(k) the Paying Agent; and
(l) the
determination
of
the
Director of Finance pursuant to Section 6(i) of this Ordinance as to
whether any Authorized Additional
Bonds of any series are to be
secured by or payable from a Credit Support Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Authorized Additional Bonds as
so determined within the limitations
set forth in this Ordinance and as
so specified and set forth in the Certificate of Award will be in the best
interest of the City and consistent
with all legal requirements.
Section 7. Application of Proceeds
of Series 2003 Bonds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2003 Bonds shall be applied
as provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture, including:
(i) to the payment of any providers of any Credit Support Instrument,
the
fees
and
expenses
required to be paid by the City to
obtain the Credit Support Instrument;
(ii) to the Bond Service Fund, that
portion, if any, of such proceeds constituting accrued interest and to the
Construction Fund that portion, if
any, of such proceeds constituting
capitalized interest;
(iii) to the Bond Service Reserve
Fund, that portion of such proceeds
required to be deposited in the Bond
Service Reserve Fund in order to
cause the balance therein to equal
the Required Bond Service Reserve,
subject to the provisions set forth in
Section 6(i) of this Ordinance for a
lesser or special deposit;
(iv) to the Renewal and Replacement Fund, the portion of such proceeds representing the Renewal and
Replacement Payment attributable
to the Series 2003 Bonds;
(v) to the trustee for the notes
issued to provide interim financing
for the Project, the amount needed,
together with other money held by
that trustee for the purpose, to
retire those notes at maturity;
(vi) if Series 2003 Bonds are
issued for the purpose of refunding
Outstanding Revenue Bonds, then to
an escrow fund (that will constitute
a separate account established in
the Bond Service Fund for that purpose pursuant to Part First of Section 5.03 of the Original Indenture),
the
portion
of
such
proceeds
required to be deposited in that
account to cause the Refunded
Bonds to be deemed paid and discharged for purposes of the Indenture;
(vii) to the counterparty under
any Hedge Agreement any payment
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be paid from the proceeds of the Series 2003 Bonds,
including any termination payment
in the event that the Director of

1825

169
Finance determines it is in the best
interests of the City to terminate the
Hedge Agreement; and
(viii) to the Costs of Issuance
Fund, to be created under the applicable Supplemental Indenture, such
amounts as are needed to pay costs
of issuing the Series 2003 Bonds and
refunding the Refunded Bonds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2003 Bonds are appropriated
and shall be used for the purpose
for which those Series 2003 Bonds
are issued as provided in this Ordinance.
Section 8. Application of Proceeds
of Swaption Refunding Bonds.
The proceeds of any sale of Swaption
Refunding
Bonds
shall
be
applied as provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture, including:
(i) to the payment of any providers of any Credit Support Instrument,
any
fees
and
expenses
required to be paid by the City and
not previously paid when the Hedge
Agreement was delivered;
(ii) to the Bond Service Fund, any
accrued interest paid by the Original Purchasers and to the Construction Fund that portion, if any, of the
proceeds
representing
capitalized
interest;
(iii) to an escrow fund (that will
constitute a separate account established in the Bond Service Fund for
that purpose pursuant to Part First
of Section 5.03 of the Original Indenture), the amount necessary, when
added to the amounts to be deposited in the escrow fund by the escrow
trustee or by the City from other
sources, to effect the payment and
discharge of the Swaption Refunded
Bonds;
(iv) to the Bond Service Reserve
Fund, that portion of such proceeds
required to be deposited in the Bond
Service Reserve Fund in order to
cause the balance therein to equal
the Required Bond Service Reserve,
subject to the provisions set forth in
Section 6(i) of this Ordinance for a
lesser or special deposit;
(v) to the counterparty under the
Hedge
Agreement
any
payment
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be paid from proceeds of
the
Swaption
Refunding
Bonds,
including any termination payment
in the event the Director of Finance
determines it is in the best interests
of the City to terminate the Hedge
Agreement; and
(vi) to the Costs of Issuance
Fund, to be created under the applicable Supplemental Indenture, such
amounts needed to pay costs of
refunding the Swaption Refunded
Bonds and issuing the Swaption
Refunding Bonds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Swaption
Refunding
Bonds
are
appropriated and shall be used for
the purpose for which those Bonds
are issued as provided in this Ordinance.
Section 9. Refunding of Outstanding Revenue Bonds; Escrow Agreements.
If Authorized Additional Bonds
are issued for the purpose of refund-

170
ing
any
Outstanding
Revenue
Bonds, then the Mayor, the Director
of Finance and the Director of Port
Control or any two of them are
authorized and directed to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, an escrow agreement
between the City and the Trustee,
as escrow trustee, providing for the
investment and holding in escrow of
the proceeds of the Authorized Additional Bonds to be applied to the
refunding of such Revenue Bonds
and for the application of the moneys derived from those investments
to the payment of the Bond service
charges on such Revenue Bonds.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
escrow agreement from proceeds of
the Authorized Additional Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose. Provision shall be
made in the escrow agreement to
give the Trustee any written notice
of redemption required under Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture.
The Mayor, the Director of Finance,
the Director of Port Control and
other appropriate City officials shall
sign all documents and take all
other actions necessary or appropriate on the part of the City to effect
such refunding in accordance with
the Original Indenture and to cause
the Refunded Bonds to be deemed
paid and discharged, including without limitation, the retention of an
independent firm of accountants to
verify the mathematical accuracy of
the calculations relating to the
escrow.
Section 10. Authorization of Supplemental Indentures.
In order to secure the payment of
the principal of and any premium
and interest on the Authorized
Additional Bonds, the Mayor, the
Director of Finance and the Director of Port Control, or any two of
them, are authorized and directed,
in the name and on behalf of the
City, to sign and deliver to the
Trustee, in trust for the Original
Purchasers and subsequent holders
of the Authorized Additional Bonds,
one or more Supplemental Indentures, approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, not
inconsistent with this Ordinance,
the Certificate of Award and the
Indenture and not
substantially
adverse to the City as may be
approved by the officers signing
the same on behalf of the City. The
determination by those officers that
a Supplemental Indenture is not
substantially adverse to the City
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing and delivery of that
Supplemental Indenture by those
officers. Any Supplemental Indenture may contain amendments to
the Original Indenture, as theretofor amended, to permit the City
increased flexibility for the use of
financial or credit structures and
techniques determined by the Director of Finance, based on the written advice of a Financial Advisor,

The City Record
to be in the best interests of the
City.
Section 11. Tax Covenants.
Certain of the Authorized Additional Bonds are to be issued and
sold as obligations bearing interest
to be excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes (the
“Tax-Exempt
Bonds”).
The
City
covenants that it will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the interest on the Tax-Exempt
Bonds will be excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) in the case of any
Tax-Exempt Bonds qualifying as
bonds, the interest on which is not
treated as an item of tax preference
under Section 57 of the Code (“NonAMT Bonds”), such Tax-Exempt
Bonds will be treated as Non-AMT
Bonds.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds to the governmental purposes
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds and, as applicable, of
property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance, or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds, is hereby authorized (a) to make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice,
consent, approval, or waiver on
behalf of the City with respect to
the Tax-Exempt Bonds as the City
is permitted or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the
Code or available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of
assuring, enhancing or protecting
the favorable tax treatment or status of the Tax-Exempt Bonds or
interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose,
reducing
the
burden
or
expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or payments
of penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take

1826

July 23, 2003
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Tax-Exempt Bonds,
and (c) to give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for
inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Tax-Exempt Bonds,
setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the
amount and use of all the proceeds
of the Tax-Exempt Bonds, the facts,
circumstances
and
estimates
on
which they are based, and other
facts and circumstances relevant to
the tax treatment of the interest on
and the tax status of the TaxExempt Bonds.
Each covenant made in this Section with respect to the Tax-Exempt
Bonds is also made with respect to
all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Tax-Exempt Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the TaxExempt Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this Section to take
with respect to the Tax-Exempt
Bonds.
Section 12. Additional Documents.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Director of Port Control and other City officials are
authorized and directed to sign and
deliver such instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate
the transactions authorized by this
Ordinance,
the
Bond
Purchase
Agreements, the Supplemental Indentures, the Indenture, the Escrow
Agreements and the Hedge Agreements.
The Director of Port Control is
hereby authorized and directed to
sign and deliver to the airlines such
amendments to the existing lease
and use agreements as are necessary and appropriate to cause those
agreements to reflect the issuance
of the Authorized Additional Bonds
and the signing and delivery of Supplemental Indentures and to be consistent
with
those
Supplemental
Indentures.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
or
Finance, the Director of Port Control, the Director of Law and other
City officials, as appropriate, are
directed to make the necessary
arrangements on behalf of the City
to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for the delivery of each series of Authorized
Additional Bonds to the Original
Purchasers and to take all actions
necessary to effect due signing,
authentication and delivery of each
series
of
Authorized
Additional
Bonds under the terms of this Ordinance, the Supplemental Indentures,
the Bond Purchase Agreements and

July 23, 2003
the Indenture. The Clerk of Council
or other appropriate official of the
City shall furnish the Original Purchasers a true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or
other official, of all proceedings had
with reference to the issuance of the
Authorized Additional Bonds along
with
such
information
for
the
records as is necessary to determine
the regularity and validity of the
issuance of the Authorized Additional Bonds.
Section 13. Official Statements;
Continuing Disclosure.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance, the Director of Port Control and other City officials as
deemed appropriate, each are authorized and directed, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
to (i) prepare or cause to be prepared, and make or authorize modifications, completions or changes of
or supplements to, disclosure documents in the form of a preliminary
official statement relating to the
issuance of the Authorized Additional Bonds of one or more series,
and (ii) determine, and certify or
otherwise represent, when each preliminary official statement as so
prepared is a “deemed final” official
statement
(except
for
permitted
omissions) by the City as of its date
for
purposes
of
Securities
and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Rule
15c2-12(b)(1). The distribution and
use of one or more preliminary official statements are hereby authorized and approved.
Those officers and each of them
are also authorized and directed, on
behalf of the City and in their official capacities, to complete each preliminary official statement with
such modifications, changes and
supplements as those officers shall
approve or authorize for the purpose
of preparing and determining, and
to certify or otherwise represent,
that the official statement as so
revised is a final official statement
for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b)
(3) and (4). Those officers each are
further authorized to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, one or more final official statements and supplements
thereto in connection with the original issuance of the Authorized
Additional Bonds as may, in their
judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Those officers each are further
authorized to sign and deliver, on
behalf of the City and in their official capacities, each final official
statement and such certificates in
connection with the accuracy of
each preliminary official statement
and each final official statement
and any amendments thereto as
may, in their judgment, also be necessary or appropriate. The Director
of Finance is authorized to contract
for services for the production and
distribution of preliminary and final
official statements, including by
printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Authorized Additional Bonds,
the City agrees, in accordance with,

The City Record
and as an obligated person with
respect to the Authorized Additional Bonds under, SEC Rule 15c2-12, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of SEC
Rule 15c2-12. In order to describe
and specify certain terms of the
City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby
to
implement
that
agreement,
including provisions for enforcement, amendment and termination,
the Mayor, the Director of Finance
and the Director of Port Control, or
any two of them, are authorized and
directed to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a continuing disclosure agreement
or certificate, which shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Authorized Additional Bonds in
accordance with SEC Rule 15c2-12.
The performance of that agreement
shall be subject to the availability
of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the City would
be required to incur to perform it.
Section 14. Lien of Pledge Hereunder.
The Airport Revenues are subject
to the lien of the pledge under the
Indenture
without
any
physical
delivery of the Airport Revenues or
further act, and the lien of such
pledge is valid and binding against
all parties having claims of any
kind against the City (irrespective
of whether such parties have notice
of such pledge and create a perfected security interest for all purposes of Chapter 1309, Ohio Revised
Code) without the necessity for separation of delivery of the Airport
Revenues or for the filing or recording of the Indenture or any other
resolution or instrument by which
such pledge is created or any certificate, statement or other document with respect to such pledge.
The pledge of the Airport Revenues
under the Indenture shall be effective and the money therefrom and
thereof may be applied to the purposes for which pledged without
necessity for any further act of
appropriation.
Section 15. Financial Advisors and
Consultants.
The Director of Finance may
obtain the services of one or more
Financial Advisors, from time to
time, to assist the Director of
Finance in making any of the determinations required by this Ordinance to be determined by the Director of Finance or to negotiate any
Hedge Agreements. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any Financial Advisor so
retained. The Director of Port Control may obtain the services of one
or more feasibility consultants, from
time to time, to provide reports in
connection with the issuance and
sale of any Authorized Additional
Bonds or the delivery of any Hedge
Agreements concerning the utiliza-

1827

171
tion and operation of the Airport
System, debt service coverage, rates
and charges or other matters. Any
Financial
Advisor
or
consultant
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent
of the underwriters or counterparties and any other party interested
in the transaction.
Section 16. Appointment of Successor Trustee.
The Mayor and the Director of
Finance, or any one of them, are
hereby authorized to appoint a successor Trustee in the event that the
current Trustee, J.P. Morgan Trust
Company,
National
Association,
shall resign or be removed, or be
dissolved or otherwise become incapable of acting as Trustee under the
Indenture, or in case it shall be
taken under the control of any public officer or officers or of a receiver appointed by a court, in accordance with the provisions of Section
12.08 of the Original Indenture.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination.
It is found and determined that all
formal actions of the Council concerning and relating to the adoption
of this Ordinance were adopted in
an open meeting of the Council, and
that all deliberations of the Council
and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were
in meetings open to the public in
compliance with all applicable legal
requirements.
Section 18. Separability.
Each section of this Ordinance
and each subdivision of any section
hereof is hereby declared to be independent, and the finding or holding
of any section or subdivision of any
section hereof to be invalid or void
shall not be deemed or held to affect
the validity of any other section or
subdivision of this Ordinance.
Section 19. Recitals.
It is hereby determined and recited that all acts, conditions and
things necessary to be done precedent to and in the issuing of the
Authorized
Additional
Bonds
in
order to make the same legal, valid
and
binding
special
obligations
issued by the City of Cleveland,
Ohio will have happened, been done
and performed or will happen, be
done and performed in regular and
due form as required by law; and
that no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional, is applicable to the issuance of the Authorized Additional
Bonds.
Section 20. Emergency.
This ordinance is hereby declared
to be an emergency measure and,
provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

The City Record

172
Ord. No. 1167-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to clean and maintain
scale pits at the Ridge Road Scale
House and Ridge Road Transfer Station, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of
Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the term of one
year or two years for the necessary
items of labor and materials to
clean and maintain scale pits at
the Ridge Road Scale House and
Ridge Road Transfer Station in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department
of Public Service. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
term. The Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts with a term of
two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to
the City. For purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall
be determined by the Director of

Public Service by comparing the
bids received for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 123252)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1168-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of furniture, fixtures, and
equipment,
for
the
Division
of
Architecture, Department of Public
Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of various types of furniture, fixtures,
and equipment, in the approximate

July 23, 2003
amount as purchased during the
preceding term, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than one year may
be taken if deemed desirable by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies
under
a
requisition
against the contract or contracts
certified
by
the
Director
of
Finance. (RL 115147)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Service may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1169-03.
By Council Members Sweeney and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of various on-road
vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment and other aftermarket items necessary
to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes, including labor and materials necessary for vehicle
rehabilitation for the various divisions of City government; and to make additional appropriations of Five Hundred
Thousand Dollars of the Enterprise Funds.
Whereas, there remains an unappropriated balance in the various funds, the sum of Five Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($500,000) which is available for additional appropriation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Finance is authorized to make one or more written requirement contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one year
for the necessary items of various on-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment
and other aftermarket items necessary to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes, including
labor and materials necessary for vehicle rehabilitation, in the estimated sum of $9,340,872.00, to be purchased by
the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the various divisions of City government, as
described below:

1828

The City Record

July 23, 2003
Item
Number

Pick-up, 4x4
Pick-up, 4x4
Skid Steer Loader
Compact-Size Passenger Car
Pick-up, 4x4

19
21
22
23
24
26

Cab/Chassis
Pick-up, 4x4
Cab/Chassis
Cab/Chassis
Cab/Chassis
Lift Truck

26A
28
29
37
38

Est. Cost

Extended
Est. Cost

1
4
1
2
1

18,000
27,000
40,000
15,500
27,000

18,000
108,000
40,000
31,000
27,000

Eng. & Const.
Motor Vehicle Maint.
Motor Vehicle Maint.
Motor Vehicle Maint.
Motor Vehicle Maint.
Motor Vehicle Maint.

1
3
1
1
1
3

55,000
25,000
65,000
70,000
75,000
55,000

55,000
75,000
65,000
70,000
75,000
165,000

Motor Vehicle Maint.
Streets
Streets
Streets
Streets

2
6
3
3
1

27,000
27,000
55,000
38,000
40,000

54,000
162,000
165,000
114,000
40,000

Streets
Streets
Traffic Eng.
Traffic Eng.
Traffic Eng.
Correction

5
5
3
2
1
1

9,000
12,000
27,000
22,000
23,000
15,500

45,000
60,000
81,000
44,000
23,000
15,500

Item Description

4
6
13
17
18

w/Dump-Plow
w/Roll-Off-Haul-All Body
w/Tow Body
w/Tire Repair Body

Sweeper/Scrubber
Pick-up, 4x4
Cab/Chassis w/Dump-Plow-Insert
Leaf Vacuum
Crack Sealer

173

User
Assess.
Waste
Waste
Eng.
Eng.

& Licenses
Collection
Collection
& Const.
& Const.

Quantity

39
40
42
43
44
47

Salt Spreader Insert-10'
Salt Spreader Insert-14'
Pick-up, 4x4
Mini-Cargo Van
Full-Size Cargo Van
Compact-Size Passenger Car

48
67
68
70
79
80

Pick-up, 4x4
SUV, 4x4
Pick-up, 4x4
Full-Size Cargo Van
Fire Boat Rehab (YR 2)
SUV, 4x4

Correction
Fire
Fire
Fire
Fire
EMS

1
2
1
2
1
2

21,000
28,000
27,000
18,500
100,000
24,000

21,000
56,000
27,000
37,000
100,000
48,000

81
84
85
87
88

Full-Size Conversion Van
Utility Truckster w/Box Bed
Mid-Size Passenger Car
15-Passenger Van
Ice Resurfacer

EMS
EMS
R, P & D
Recreation
Recreation

1
1
1
3
1

30,000
25,000
18,000
24,000
65,000

30,000
25,000
18,000
72,000
65,000

Recreation
Recreation
Property Management
Property Management
Park Maintenance
Park Maintenance

1
1
7
2
2
3

13,000
4,500
26,000
27,000
55,000
30,000

13,000
4,500
182,000
54,000
110,000
90,000

3
6
6
3
6
3

16,500
9,000
4,000
9,000
18,000
16,000

49,500
54,000
24,000
27,000
108,000
48,000

89
90
104
105
110
113

Utility Mower
Snow Blower
Full-Size Cargo Van
Pick-up, 4x4
Cab/Chassis w/Dump-Plow
Brush Chipper

114
115
116
117
118
119

Utility Truckster
Utility Mower
Landscape Mower
Cemetery Mower
Sidewalk Tractor/Plow
Leaf Vacuum

120
122
123
125
50

Compact-Size Passenger Car
15-Passenger Van
Compact-Size Passenger Car
Pick-up, 4x4
Mid-Size Passenger Car

Community Development
Community Development
Building & Housing
Building & Housing
Health

5
1
4
1
1

15,500
24,000
15,500
18,000
18,000

77,500
24,000
62,000
18,000
18,000

51
53
55
56
56A
56B

Full-Size Passenger Van
Compact-Size Passenger car
Mid-Size Passenger Car
Compact-Size Passenger Car
SUV, 4x4
Full-Size Cargo Van

Health
Environment
Environment
Air Quality
Air Quality
Air Quality

1
2
1
4
1
1

24,000
15,500
18,000
$14,500
$18,500
$16,500

24,000
31,000
18,000
$58,000
$18,500
$16,500

Utility Truckster w/ Hyralics
Greensmower
Fairway mower
Sand Pro
Cab/Chassis w/Stake Body
Lift Truck

Rec./Golf Courses
Rec./Golf Courses
Rec./Golf Courses
Rec./Golf Courses
Convention Center
Convention Center

1
2
1
1
1
2

16,000
18,000
25,000
20,000
45,000
40,000

16,000
36,000
25,000
20,000
45,000
80,000

Sweeper/Scrubber
Compact-Size Passenger car
Full-Size Cargo Van
Pick-up, 4x4, Extended Cab

Convention Center
Parking Facilities
Parking Facilities
Parking Facilities

2
4
1
4

27,000
15,500
24,000
22,000

54,000
62,000
24,000
88,000

92
93
94
95
97
98
100
101
102
103

Park
Park
Park
Park
Park
Park

1829

Maintenance
Maintenance
Maintenance
Maintenance
Maintenance
Maintenance

The City Record

174
Item
Number
58
59
61
62
Item
Number
127
128
129
130
131
132
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
158A
159
160
161
162

Item Description

User

Quantity

Police
Police
Police
Police

75
5
3
1

User

Quantity

Office of Cable TV
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
WPC
WPC
WPC
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CHIA

1
7
7
10
14
3
4
1
1
2
2
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
1
1
1

Full-Size Passenger Car, Police Pkg
Mid-Size Passenger Car
Cargo Van
Surveillance Van

Item Description
SUV, 4x4
SUV, 4x4
Mid-Size Passenger Car
Mid-Size Passenger Car, Station Wgn.
Pick-up, 4x4
Full-Size Cargo Van
SUV, 4x4
Cab/Chassis w/Dump-Plow
Cab/Chassis w/Sewer Cleaner
SUV, 4x4
Mid-Size Passenger Car-CNG
Pick-up, 4x4
Full-Size Cargo Van
Cab/Chassis w/Dump-Plow-Insert
Cab/Chassis w/Aerial Device
Cab/Chassis w/Aerial Device
Cab/Chassis w/Aerial Device
Cab/Chassis w/Aerial Device
Cab/Chassis w/Aerial Device
Cab/Chassis w/Digger-Derrick
Cab/Chassis w/Digger-Derrick
Yard Crane
Sweeper/Scrubber
Pole Trailer
Brush Chipper
Arrow Board
ARFF Vehicle

July 23, 2003
Est. Cost

Extended
Est. Cost

27,500
18,000
25,000
60,000

2,062,500
90,000
75,000
60,000

Est. Cost

Extended
Est. Cost

24,000
29,000
18,000
18,360
27,000
26,000
24,000
120,000
220,000
24,000
21,000
27,000
26,000
60,000
90,000
115,000
115,000
135,000
135,000
165,000
165,000
145,000
27,000
10,000
30,000
12,000
493,772

24,000
203,000
126,000
183,600
378,000
78,000
96,000
120,000
220,000
48,000
42,000
54,000
52,000
120,000
90,000
115,000
115,000
135,000
135,000
165,000
165,000
145,000
27,000
20,000
30,000
12,000
493,772

Bids shall be taken in such manner as to permit an award to be made for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than a year may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until
provision is made for the requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be charged against Fund Nos. 11 SF 006, 52 SF 001,
54 SF 001, 58 SF 001, 60 SF 001, 60 SF 106, 63 SF 001, 65 SF 001, 67 SF 001, 13 SF160, 13 SF 161, 13 SF 163 and
from the proper appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of Finance. At
this time, it is estimated that $3.3 million dollars of the total cost of these contracts will be paid from enterprise
funds. (RL 127480)
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The Director of Public Service may sign all
documents with the State of Ohio or any of its political subdivisions that are necessary to make the purchases
and may enter into contract or contracts with the vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That there is appropriated the additional revenue as set forth in the Amended Official Certificate of
Estimated Resources received from the Budget Commission of Cuyahoga County for the year 2003, dated February
24, 2003, previously unappropriated as follows:
ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$500,000
ENTERPRISE FUNDS

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION AND PROPERTIES
Golf Courses Fund
II
Other Expenses

$

147,000

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
II
Other Expenses

$

174,000

Division of Convention Center & Stadium – Convention Center
II
Other Expenses

$

179,000

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$

500,000

$

147,000

$

174,000

$

179,000

$

500,000

Section 5. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1830

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1170-03.
By Council Members Sweeney,
White and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to enact
new Section 411.011 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976;
to amend Sections 503.01, 503.99, and
507.06, as amended by various ordinances; and to repeal Section 503.02,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410A, passed September 22, 1924, relating to street and sidewalk obstruction permits and street opening permits.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 411.011 to read as follows:
Section 411.011 Street Obstruction
Permits
(a) No person shall place or cause
to be placed any object or property
so as to obstruct the public’s use of
any highway, lane, road, street or
alley without first obtaining a street
obstruction permit from the Director
of Public Service.
(b) An application for a street
obstruction permit shall contain the
following information:(1) The name
of the applicant;
(2) The location of the proposed
obstruction;
(3) The purpose of the obstruction;
(4) The proposed commencement
date, time and estimated duration of
the obstruction; and
(5) A traffic maintenance plan.
(c) The application shall be accompanied with the fee established
from time to time by the Board of
Control and evidence of a public liability insurance policy issued by an
insurer authorized to transact business in Ohio, in an amount not less
than $1,000,000.00, listing the City of
Cleveland as an additional insured.
(d) The Director may deny or
revoke a street obstruction permit
whenever the Director finds:
(1) The applicant has previously
violated the provisions of a street
obstruction permit or has submitted
materially false or incomplete information on any street obstruction
permit application; or
(2) The obstruction would unreasonably
interfere
with
another
obstruction for which a permit has
been issued; or
(3) The time, place or size of the
obstruction
would
unreasonably
interfere with public convenience
and safe use of the street;
(4) The obstruction would unreasonably interfere with the movement or service capability of emergency or service vehicles; or
(5) The obstruction would unreasonably interfere with a construction project.
(e) Whoever violates division (a)
of this Section shall be fined not
less
than
two
hundred
dollars
($200.00).
(f) This section shall not apply to
any person that has been issued a
permit under the following Chapters
of the Codified Ordinances:
(1) Chapter 133 relating to special
events;

The City Record
(2)
Chapter
411
relating
to
parades;
(3) Chapter 503 relating to street
openings and maintenance; or
(4)
Chapter
3109
relating
to
encroachment permits.
Section 2. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 503.01, as amended by
Ordinance No. 264-91, passed March
4, 1991,
Section 503.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1802-2000, passed December 18, 2000, and
Section 507.06, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2181-99, passed December 13, 1999,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 503.01 Street Opening Permits; Contents; Costs
(a) Except as provided in division
(g) of this section, no person shall
make an excavation or opening or
remove any pavement in any highway, lane, road, street or alley of
the City, without first obtaining a
street opening permit. Before a person, including a corporation, private
utility or public utility may receive
such a permit, such person shall file
with the Director of Public Service
an application on the form provided
by the Director. This application
shall set forth and include the location, kinds and extent of the pavement desired to be taken up and the
number, purpose and size of openings
or
excavations
which
are
desired or necessary. At the time of
application, applicant shall pay a
non-refundable fee in accordance
with a fee schedule fixed from time
to time by the Board of Control in
order to recover the City’s costs
related to street opening.
(b) In the event the scope of the
project is revised during the course
of the work, the Commissioner of
Engineering and Construction may
recalculate the fee based on the
actual size of the excavation in
accordance with the fee schedule
fixed by the Board of Control.
(c) In the event that a street
opening permit is not issued or is
revoked before an excavation has
been made, the entire fee shall be
refunded to the applicant, except for
an amount fixed from time to time
by the Board of Control to cover the
city’s cost of processing the application.
(d) Prior to being issued a street
opening permit, permittee shall submit a performance bond either:
(1) In the amount of the estimated cost of backfilling and restoring
the excavation to be made by the
permittee, as estimated by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction; or
(2) An umbrella bond in the
amount of $250,000.00. Any person providing an umbrella bond will be
deemed to have met the performance
bond requirements of this section for
the duration of the performance bond.
(e) After the fee and deposit
required by this section have been
paid, the Director may issue the permit applied for. The permit shall
state the exact time the opening or
excavation is to be made, the probable length of time required for the
work to be done and the repair
made, the character of the pavement, including its base, and the
character of the work necessary for
the satisfactory relaying of the
pavement.

1831

175
(f)
All
excavations
shall
be
restored by permittee according to
regulations
promulgated
by
the
Director of Public Service. Any regulations promulgated by the Director shall be effective thirty (30)
days after publication in the City
Record.
(1) If the Director determines that
the permittee has failed to make
restorations according to the Director’s regulations, the Director may,
by written notice, order the permittee to make restorations according
to the regulations. The permittee
shall have thirty (30) calendar days
from receipt of written notice to
make the appropriate restorations.
(2) If the Director determines that
the permittee has failed to make
restorations after thirty (30) days
from
the
permittee’s
receipt
of
notice, the Director may draw, from
the permittee’s performance bond,
funds sufficient to make the restorations according to the Director’s regulations.
(g) In an emergency, a person
may make an excavation or opening
or remove pavement in any highway, lane, road, street or alley of
they City, provided that the person
notifies the Director in writing of
the emergency, including a description of the nature of the emergency,
and applies for a street opening
permit within seven (7) calendar
days of making the opening. The
appropriate street opening fee shall
accompany the application. Any person failing to notify the Director as
provided in this division (g) shall
be charged the regular permit fee
plus an additional fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) to cover the
City’s administrative costs of identifying and inspecting the street
opening made without a permit. As
used in this division (g), “emergency” means a condition that (i)
poses a clear and immediate danger
to life or health or of a significant
loss of property; or (ii) requires
immediate repair or replacement in
order to restore service to a user.
(h) The street opening permit
shall identify the time period in
which the street opening must be
closed. The Commissioner of Engineering and Construction or his
designee will determine this time
period based upon the size and
nature of the opening.
(1) If the work is not started within the time designated in the street
opening permit, the permit may be
revoked by the Commissioner of
Engineering and Construction.
(2) If the work has been started
but not completed within the time
designated in the street opening permit, the permit may be revoked by
the Commissioner of Engineering
and Construction. If the permit is
revoked, the Director may charge
all accrued restoration charges to
the permittee. Should the permittee
fail to pay all accrued restoration
charges within thirty (30) calendar
days of receipt of notice, the Director may draw, from the permittee’s
performance bond, funds sufficient
to restore the highway, lane, road,
street, or alley according to the
Director’s regulations.
(3) If a street opening permit is
revoked by the Commssioner of
Engineering and Construction, a
new permit must be secured before
any further work can proceed.
(i) A permittee, in accepting and
acting under a street opening per-

176
mit, agrees to assume full responsibility for injury and damage to persons and property incurred because
of any settlement of a restored area,
and further agrees to pay all costs
involved
in
reconditioning
such
areas.
If
any
settlement
in
a
restored area occurs within a period
of one year from date of completion
of the permanent restoration, it
shall be considered as conclusive
evidence of defective backfilling.
Any expense incurred by the City in
correcting such settlement shall be
paid by the permittee.
(j) A permittee shall carry on the
work authorized by the permit in
such manner as to cause a minimum
of interference with traffic. The permittee shall use a traffic control
plan
that
meets
the
minimum
requirements in the Ohio Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, as
amended, or is otherwise approved
by the Director.
Section 503.99 Penalty
(a) Whoever violates divisions
(a) or (g) of Section 503.01 shall be
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Every violation is a separate offense and every day of violation
constitutes a separate offense.
(b) Every person, firm or corporation violating Section 503.03 shall
be fined not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00). The existence of a
single post, pole or other structure
in the streets or sidewalks contrary
to the provision of Section 503.03
constitutes a separate offense. Each
day that such post, pole or other
structure is allowed to exist in the
streets or sidewalks contrary to the
provision of Section 503.03 constitutes a separate offense.
(c) Whoever violates any provisions of Section 503.05 to 503.07 shall
be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) not more than five
hundred
dollars
($500.00)
and
imprisoned for not more than sixty
(60) days or both. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which an
offense occurs or continues.
(d)
Whoever
violates
Section
503.09 shall be fined not more than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(e) Every day a gas company
neglects or fails to comply with the
notice provided for in Section 503.11
it shall be fined ten dollars ($10.00).
(f)
Whoever
violates
Section
503.12 shall be fined not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for the first offense. A subsequent offense by the same party
in the same area of responsibility
shall be fined not les than two hundred ($200.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Any
further offense by the same party in
the same area of responsibility shall
result in imprisonment for not less
than three nor more than ten days.
Section 507.06 Sidewalk Obstruction Permits
(a) No person shall place or cause
to be placed any object or property
so as to obstruct the public’s use of
any sidewalk without first obtaining a sidewalk obstruction permit
from the Director of Public Service.
(b) An application for a sidewalk
obstruction permit shall contain the
following information:
(1) The name of the applicant;
(2) The location of the proposed
obstruction;
(3) The purpose of the obstruction;

The City Record
(4) The proposed commencement
date, time and estimated duration of
the obstruction; and
(5) A pedestrian maintenance traffic plan.
(c) The application shall be accompanied with the fee established
from time to time by the Board of
Control and evidence of a public liability insurance policy issued by an
insurer authorized to transact business in Ohio, in an amount not less
than $1,000,000.00, listing the City of
Cleveland as an additional insured.
(d) The Director may deny or
revoke a sidewalk obstruction permit whenever the Director finds:
(1) The applicant has previously
violated the provisions of a sidewalk obstruction permit or has submitted materially false or incomplete information on any sidewalk
obstruction permit application; or
(2) The obstruction would unreasonably interfere with another obstruction for which a permit has
been issued; or
(3) The time, place or size of the
obstruction would unreasonably interfere with public convenience and
safe use of the sidewalk;
(4) The obstruction would unreasonably interfere with the movement or service capability of emergency or service vehicles; or
(5) The obstruction would unreasonably interfere with a construction project.
(e) Whoever violates division (a)
of this Section shall be fined not
less
than
one
hundred
dollars
($100.00).
(f) This section shall not apply to
any person that has been issued a
permit under the following Chapters
of the Codified Ordinances:
(1) Chapter 133 relating to special
events;
(2) Chapter 411 relating to parades;
(3) Chapter 508 relating to sidewalk occupancy for vendors in the
Central Business District;
(4) Chapter 513 relating to outdoor restaurants;
(5) Chapter 670B relating to pay
telephones;
(6) Chapter 675 relating to peddlers and produce dealers;
(7) Chapter 680 relating to newspaper boxes; or
(8) Chapter 3109 relating to encroachment permits.
Section 3. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 503.01, as amended by
Ordinance No. 264-91, passed March
4, 1991,
Section 503.02, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September
22, 1924,
Section 503.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1802-2000, passed December 18, 2000, and
Section 507.06, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2181-99, passed December 13, 1999,
are repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1832

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1174-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more
contracts with various housing development entities, or their designees, to implement the Housing
Trust Fund Program, for costs associated with various housing activities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various housing development entities, or their designees,
for the purpose of implementing the
Housing Trust Fund Program.
Section 2. That eligible activities
under the Housing Trust Fund Program include new construction, rehabilitation, site preparation, site
acquisition, predevelopment activities and financial assistance to
home buyers.
Section 3. That the cost of the contracts shall not exceed $8,200,000.00,
and shall be paid from Federal
HOME Grant Fund Nos. 13 SF 895
and 13 SF 980 and Community Development Block Grant Fund Nos. 14 SF
021, 14 SF 022, 14 SF 023, 14 SF 024,
14 SF 025, 14 SF 026, 14 SF 027, 14
SF 028, and 14 SF 029, Request No.
125743.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of loans authorized in this ordinance
and to deposit those monies in Fund
No. 14 and utilize said repayments
and other program income in a
revolving fund for making additional expenditures under this program,
and such funds are hereby appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes,
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of loans made under this program.
Section 6. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into forbearance
agreements with any recipient of a
validly existing loan administered
by the City, and to charge and
accept fees to cover costs incurred
in the preparation of loan documents, closing, and servicing costs.
Such fees shall be deposited into
Fund No. 14. The revenues generated as a result of charging fees are
hereby appropriated for additional
program and operating expenses for
Housing Trust Fund activities.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1175-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts with Maximum Independent Living to provide seminars
and materials on housing accessibility and universal design principles to assist people with disabilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with Maximum Independent
Living to provide seminars and
materials on housing accessibility
and universal design principles to
assist people with disabilities.
Section 2. That the cost of the contracts shall not exceed $20,000 and
shall be paid from Fund No. 14 SF
028, Request No. 125747.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1176-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development
and
Building
and
Housing to enter into one or more
contracts without competitive bidding with Hewlett-Packard Co. for
the purchase of computer hardware
maintenance, for the Departments of
Community Development and Building and Housing, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council has
determined that the within commodities are non-competitive and
cannot be secured from any source
other
than
Hewlett-Packard
Co.
Therefore the Directors of Community Development and Building and
Housing is authorized to make one
or more written contracts with
Hewlett-Packard Co. on the basis of
its proposal, for computer hardware
maintenance for a period not to
exceed two years, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies for a gross price for
the
Departments
of
Community
Development
and
Building
and
Housing.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 14 SF 029
and 01-850101-661-000, Request No.
125737.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

The City Record
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1179-03.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Gordon and Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone
Agreement
with
Sutton
Builders, Inc. to provide for a ten
year sixty percent tax abatement on
personal property and real property
improvements to assist with the
acquisition and renovation of real
property located at 2507, 2509, and
2511 Professor Avenue, in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council designated an area which is in
the City of Cleveland and described
in File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised Code
and certified the area as an “Urban
Jobs and Enterprise Zone” under
Chapter 5709 of the Revised Code;
and
Whereas, Sutton Builders, Inc.
(the “Enterprise”) has proposed to
acquire and renovate real property
located at 2507, 2509, and 2511 Professor Avenue in the Cleveland Area
Enterprise Zone; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City, it would be at a
competitive disadvantage operating
at this location if taxes on personal
property and real property improvements were not abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property, and welfare and that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, and the
assistance is immediately necessary
or jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council approves the application of the Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives
on the basis that the Enterprise is
qualified by financial responsibility
and business experience to create
and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone and to improve the economic climate of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a ten year sixty percent (60%) tax abatement on personal property and real property
improvements to assist with the
acquisition and renovation of real
property located at 2507, 2509, and

1833

177
2511 Professor Avenue, in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; the
abatement shall be subject to annual review of the Tax Incentive
Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 1179-03A. These terms shall not be amended, nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferrable to any
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
listed in Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve the
agreement and that the agreement
shall contain the terms and provisions the director deems necessary
to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1180-03.
By Council Members Conwell, Gordon and Jackson (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 315-03, passed March
24, 2003, relating to providing economic development assistance to
improve property located at 11316
Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 31503, passed March 24, 2003, are
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Nadia 1, Inc. to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the purchase of machinery
and equipment and to make interior
leasehold improvements to the property located at 11316 Euclid Avenue,
and all other associated costs to
redevelop the property located in
Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a contract with
Nadia 1, Inc. to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the purchase of machinery
and equipment and to make interior
leasehold improvements to the property located at 11316 Euclid Avenue,
and all other associated costs to
redevelop the property located in
Cleveland, Ohio.

178
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 315-03-B.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance
No. 315-03, passed March 24, 2003, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1181-03.
By Council Members Gordon and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Taxable Urban Renewal Temporary
Refunding Bonds in the principal
amount not to exceed $4,350,000 for
the purpose of (1) refunding outstanding Taxable Urban Renewal
Notes, Series 2002 issued for the purpose of acquiring property for Urban
Renewal Project Activities and (2)
paying certain costs of issuance of
said Refunding Bonds; and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, under Article VIII, Section 13 of the Ohio Constitution and
Chapter 725 of the Ohio Revised
Code (the “Act”), the City has the
power to undertake and carry out
urban renewal projects pursuant to
urban renewal plans approved by
the City from time to time, and the
City has undertaken and carried out
and intends to undertake and carry
out urban renewal activities for the
elimination of blight and for the
prevention of the development and
spread of blight and deterioration
within its designated urban renewal areas; and
Whereas, the City has undertaken
a program for the clearance and
reconstruction
of
blighted
areas
within its boundaries and, in connection therewith, is engaged in carrying out the following development
projects: (a) the Erieview II Neighborhood Development Plan No. Ohio
A-8 (the “Erieview II Development
Plan”) in an area bounded generally on the north by Lakeside Avenue,
on the east by East 17th Street, on
the south by Superior Avenue, and
on the west by East 12th Street (the
“Erieview II Plan Area”) and (b)
the Erieview I Renewal Project No.
Ohio R-36 (the “Erieview I Development Plan”) in an area bounded
generally on the north by Lakeside
Avenue, on the east by East 14th
Street on the south by Chester
Avenue and on the west by East 6th
Street (the “Erieview I Plan Area”),
which Erieview I Development Plan
and Erieview II Development Plan
(together the “Development Plans”)
remain in force and effect; and
Whereas, the Council of the City,
by Ordinance Nos. 1634-73 and 242860, passed on April 8, 1974, and
December 12, 1960, respectively, as
amended from time to time, designated the Erieview II Plan Area and
the Erieview I Plan Area (collectively, the “Plan Areas”) as blighted areas and encouraged the redevelopment of certain parcels within
the Plan Area in accordance with

The City Record
the requirements of the Development Plans in order to prevent the
recurrence or spread of conditions of
blight; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1108-87, passed June 8, 1987, as
amended by Ordinance No. 3012-88,
passed February 6, 1989, and Ordinance No. 1374-91, passed June 17,
1991, and Ordinance No. 1713-91,
passed August 21, 1991, the Director
of Community Development entered
into certain agreements (the “Agreements”) with Jacobs, Visconsi &
Jacobs Co. and its assignees (the
“Redeveloper”), relating to the redevelopment of certain real property
in the Plan Areas; and
Whereas,
the
Agreements,
as
amended, provide that in the event
of a default under the Agreements,
the City is entitled to repurchase
Parcels 22-A-2, 9-B, and the additional properties (collectively, the
“Properties”), as defined in and pursuant to the terms and conditions
set forth in the Agreements; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 168-A-01, passed August 15, 2001,
the City: (1) exercised its rights to
repurchase
the
above-referenced
Properties as provided in the Agreements and purchased the Properties;
and (2) pursuant to Article VIII,
Section 13 of the Ohio Constitution
and the Act, and particularly Section
725.05(C) of the Revised Code, the
City issued Urban Renewal Temporary Bonds captioned $4,200,000 City
of Cleveland, Ohio Taxable Urban
Renewal Notes, Series 2001 (the
“Prior Bonds”), dated November 1,
2001 and maturing on November 1,
2002, in the principal amount of
$4,200,000 for the purpose of paying
costs of carrying out urban renewal
project activities in the Plan Areas
in accordance with the Development
Plans and the Act, including without limitation, direct and indirect
costs of acquiring the Properties,
preparing the Properties for redevelopment, title, appraisal, planning,
engineering and legal costs related
thereto, and paying Financing Costs
(as defined below) related to issuing the Prior Bonds (the “Project”);
and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1709-02 dated September 16, 2002
the City issued its $4,250,000 Taxable
Urban
Renewal
Refunding
Notes, Series 2002 (“Prior Bonds
Series 2002”) to currently refund all
of the Prior Bonds; and
Whereas, the City now has determined to issue Temporary Bonds to
refund the Prior Bonds Series 2002
and to pay Financing Costs; and
Whereas, it is necessary to issue
the
Urban
Renewal
Temporary
Refunding Bonds (the “Temporary
Bonds”) herein authorized and to do
so as soon as possible in order to
timely retire the Prior Bonds Series
2002 and to take advantage of current market interest rates, thereby
preserving the credit of the City and
reducing debt service payable by
the City, and, as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes
an
emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public property, health, and safety and for the
usual and daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms elsewhere
defined in this Ordinance including
its preambles, unless the context or

1834

July 23, 2003
use clearly indicates another or different meaning or intent:
“Book entry form” or “Book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (a) the ownership of
book entry interests in the Temporary Bonds and the principal of and
interest on the Temporary Bonds
may be transferred only through a
book entry, and (b) physical Bond
certificates in fully registered form
are issued only to a Depository or
its nominee as registered owner,
with the physical Bond certificates
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository or its agent. The book
entry system is maintained by and
is the responsibility of the Depository and not the City or the Bond
Registrar. The book entry is the
record that identifies, and records
the transfer of the interests of, the
owners of beneficial (book entry)
interests in the Temporary Bonds.
“Certificate of Award” means the
certificate authorized by Section 3,
to be executed by the Director of
Finance, setting forth and determining those terms or other matters
pertaining to the Temporary Bonds
and their amount, issuance, sale and
delivery as this Ordinance requires
or authorizes to be set forth or
determined in it.
“Continuing
Disclosure
Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 12 which together
with the agreements of the City set
forth in that Section, shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
holders and beneficial owners of the
Temporary Bonds in accordance
with the Rule.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
a letter of credit, an insurance policy, or other credit enhancement or
liquidity device provided to enhance
the security or liquidity of the Temporary Bonds.
“Debt Retirement Fund” means
the Urban Renewal Debt Retirement
Fund established pursuant to Section 10.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of book entry
interests in Temporary Bonds or the
principal of and interest on the Temporary Bonds, and to effect transfers of Temporary Bonds, in book
entry form, and includes and means
initially The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New York, New York.
“Financial Advisor” means either
or both of Government Capital Management, LLC and Columbia Equity
Financial Corp.
“Financing Costs” has the meaning provided in Section 133.01 of the
Revised Code.
“Nontax Revenues” means all moneys of the City which are not moneys raised by taxation, to the extent
available for the purpose of paying
debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds, including, but not limited to
the following: (a) grants from the
United States of America and the
State; (b) payments in lieu of taxes
now or hereafter authorized by State
statute; (c) fines and forfeitures
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund; (d) fees deposited in
the City’s General Fund for services
provided and from properly imposed
licenses and permits; (e) investment
earnings
on
the
City’s
General
Fund; (f) investment earnings on
other funds of the City that are

July 23, 2003
credited to the City’s General Fund;
(g) proceeds from the sale of assets
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund; (h) gifts and donations; and (i) all rental payments
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund.
“Original Purchaser” means the
original purchasers of the Temporary Bonds: SBK-Brooks Investment
Corp., Apex Pryor Securities and
Siebert Brandford Shank & Co., LLC.
“Proceedings” means collectively,
this Ordinance, the Certificate of
Award, the Continuing Disclosure
Certificate and such other proceedings of the City, including the Temporary Bonds, that provide collectively for, among other things, the
rights of holders and beneficial owners of the Temporary Bonds.
“Revenues” means, to the extent
not otherwise pledged for the repayment of the City’s Parking Facilities
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
1996, and to the extent available to
pay debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds, any rentals received under
leases made by the City with
respect to the Project properties, all
proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the Project properties
and any urban renewal service payments collected from any of the Project properties.
“Rule” means SEC Rule 15c2-12.
“State” means the State of Ohio.
“Temporary Bonds” means the
Temporary Bonds authorized by this
Ordinance.
Unless otherwise indicated, any
reference to a Section is a reference
to a Section of this Ordinance.
Section 2. Authorized Principal
Amount and Purpose. This Council
determines that (i) the Project is
consistent with the purposes of Section 13 of Article VIII of the Ohio
Constitution; (ii) the Project is in
furtherance of the purposes of the
Act and will benefit the people of
the City and of the State by creating and preserving jobs and employment opportunities and improving
the economic welfare of the people
of the City and of the State; and
(iii) it is necessary for the City to
issue the Temporary Bonds pursuant
to Section 13 of Article VIII of the
Ohio
Constitution
and
Sections
725.05(C) and 725.07 of the Act in
the principal amount not to exceed
$4,350,000 to retire the Prior Bonds
Series 2002 which were originally
issued to retire the Prior Bonds and
to pay costs of the Project.
Section 3. Terms of Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall
be dated the date of issuance or
such other date as is designated in
the Certificate of Award but not
later than October 30, 2003. The
Temporary Bonds shall mature on a
date to be determined by the Director of Finance in the Certificate of
Award in accordance with the Director of Finance’s determination of the
best interest of and financial advantages to the City, provided that such
date shall not be later than five
years from the date of issuance of
the Temporary Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall bear interest from
their date at the rate or rates per
annum set forth in the Certificate of
Award, or if any Temporary Bonds
bear interest at a variable rate, at
the rate determined pursuant to the
method set forth in the Certificate
of Award. Interest on the Temporary Bonds shall be payable on the
dates determined by the Director of

The City Record
Finance in the Certificate of Award
and until the principal amount is
paid or payment is provided for. If
any Temporary Bonds bear interest
at a fixed rate or rates, those rates
shall not exceed eight percent (8%)
per year (computed on the basis of
a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months) and interest shall be
payable not more often than every
six months and at maturity or at
any earlier redemption date. If any
Temporary Bonds bear interest at a
variable rate or rates, those rates
shall not exceed that set forth
below, and interest shall be payable
not more often than once a month
and following purchase and at
maturity or at any earlier redemption date.
In the event that the Director of
Finance based on the written advice
of the Financial Advisor determines
that the City’s best interests will be
served by causing all or a portion
of the Temporary Bonds to be obligations bearing interest at variable
rates, redeemable by the City without penalty or premium on interest
adjustment dates, then the Director
of Finance is authorized to so specify in the Certificate of Award. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the Director of Finance
shall specify in the Certificate of
Award the method and procedure by
which the variable rate of interest
to be borne by the variable rate
Temporary Bonds shall be determined, whether by reference to a
market index, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise; provided that
the variable rate Temporary Bonds
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess of sixteen percent (16%) per
annum; provided further that the
maximum interest rate for variable
rate Temporary Bonds during any
period those Temporary Bonds are
held by a provider of a Credit Support Instrument because they could
not be remarketed shall be twentyfive percent (25%). Holders of variable rate Temporary Bonds may be
given the right to tender their variable rate Temporary Bonds for purchase by the City at the times, on
the terms, and subject to the conditions set forth in the Certificate of
Award and any tender agreement;
provided that tender rights shall be
exercisable only at such times as a
Credit Support Instrument is in
place that provides for the payment
of the purchase price payable to the
tendering holder of a variable rate
Temporary Bond. If the Director of
Finance designates any Temporary
Bonds as variable rate Temporary
Bonds, and if the holders of the variable rate Temporary Bonds are to be
entitled to tender the variable rate
Temporary Bonds for purchase, then
the Director of Finance shall also
designate
in
the
Certificate
of
Award for those variable rate Temporary
Bonds
the
provider
or
providers for any Credit Support
Instrument, the tender agent or
agents and the remarketing agent
or agents, which designations shall
be based on the determination of the
Director of Finance that the parties
so designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Temporary Bonds, and from time to time

1835

179
thereafter so long as the variable
rate Temporary Bonds are outstanding with providers of Credit Support
Instruments, tender agents (which
may be the Registrar), remarketing
agents (which may be the Original
Purchaser), and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates permitting holders the right of
tender, providing for liquidity or
credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Temporary Bonds
upon tender for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City of any amounts
drawn under the Credit Support
Instrument.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
the Temporary Bonds, and regardless of the Temporary Bonds bearing interest at variable or fixed
rates, is authorized to contract for a
Credit Support Instrument and to
pay the costs of it from proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds, if the Director of Finance based on the written
advice of the Financial Advisor
determines that the Credit Support
Instrument will result in a savings
in the cost of this financing to the
City.
Section
4.
Payment
of
Debt
Charges on the Temporary Bonds.
The debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds shall be payable in lawful
money of the United States of America, or in Federal Reserve funds of
the United States of America as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award,
and shall be payable, without deduction for the services of the Registrar as the City’s paying agent. If
agreed to by the Original Purchaser, the Temporary Bonds shall be
subject to redemption without penalty or premium at the option of the
City in whole or in part at any time
prior to maturity as provided in this
Ordinance and the Certificate of
Award.
If fewer than all of the Temporary Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Temporary Bonds of that maturity
to be redeemed, or portions thereof
in amounts of the minimum authorized denomination (as set forth in
Section 8 hereof) or any integral
multiple thereof, shall be made by
lot in a manner determined by the
Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption of Temporary Bonds by
lot
when
Temporary
Bonds
of
denominations greater than the minimum authorized denomination are
then outstanding, each unit of principal thereof in the amount of the
minimum authorized denomination
shall be treated as if it were a separate Temporary Bond of the denomination of the minimum authorized
denomination. If it is determined
that one or more, but not all, of the
units of principal amount in the
amount of the minimum authorized
denomination represented by a Temporary Bonds are to be called for
redemption, then, upon notice of
redemption of such unit or units, the
registered owner of that Temporary
Bond shall surrender the Temporary
Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption price of such
unit or units of principal amount
called for redemption (including,
without
limitation,
the
interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption), and (ii) for issuance,

180
without charge to the registered
owner, of a new Temporary Bond or
Temporary Bonds of any authorized
denomination or denominations in
an
aggregate
principal
amount
equal to the unmatured and unredeemed portion of, and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as, the Temporary Bond surrendered.
The notice of the call for redemption of Temporary Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers, or other distinguishing marks,
the Temporary Bonds or portions
thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least 30
days prior to the date fixed for
redemption, to the registered owner
of each Temporary Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Register (as defined
in Section 5) maintained by the Registrar at the close of business on the
15th day preceding that mailing.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Temporary Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Temporary Bond.
In the event that notice of redemption shall have been given by the
Registrar to the registered owners
as provided above, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, moneys that, in addition to any other
moneys available therefor and held
by the Registrar, will be sufficient
to redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus accrued interest to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Temporary Bonds for
which notice of redemption has been
given. Notice having been mailed in
the manner provided in the preceding paragraph hereof, the Temporary Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall become
due and payable on the redemption
date, and, upon presentation and
surrender thereof at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid at the redemption price, plus
accrued interest to the redemption
date. If moneys for the redemption
of all of the Temporary Bonds and
portions thereof to be redeemed,
together with accrued interest thereon to the redemption date, are held
by the Registrar on the redemption
date, so as to be available therefor
on that date and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail as aforesaid, then from and
after the redemption date those
Bonds and portions thereof called
for redemption shall cease to bear
interest and no longer shall be considered to be outstanding. If those
moneys shall not be so available on
the redemption date, or that notice
shall not have been deposited in the
mail as aforesaid, those Temporary
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All moneys
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Temporary
Bonds shall be held in trust for the
account of the registered owners
thereof and shall be paid to them,

The City Record
respectively, upon presentation and
surrender
of
those
Temporary
Bonds.
Section 5. Registrar. The Director
of Finance shall designate a bank
or trust company to act as the
authenticating
agent,
registrar,
transfer agent and paying agent for
the Temporary Bonds after determining that the payment at that
bank or trust company will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and that proper procedures
and safeguards are available for
that purpose (the “Registrar”). The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, a registrar agreement or
agreements between the City and
the Registrar (the “Registrar Agreement”) substantially in the form
contained in file no. 1181-03-A, with
such changes as approved by the
Director of Law. In the event that a
trust agreement secures the Temporary Bonds, as provided in Section
10, the Registrar Agreement may be
incorporated in such trust agreement. The Director of Finance shall
provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Registrar Agreement from the
proceeds of the Temporary Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
The Temporary Bonds shall be
issued only as fully registered Temporary Bonds. Principal on the
Temporary Bonds shall be payable
when due upon presentation and
surrender of the Temporary Bonds
at the designated office of the Registrar designated in the Registrar
Agreement. Interest on each Temporary Bond shall be paid on each
interest payment date by check or
draft mailed to the person in whose
name the Temporary Bond was registered, and to that person’s address
appearing on the Register (defined
below in this Section) at the close
of business on the 15th day of the
calendar month next preceding that
interest payment date or such other
date established in the Certificate of
Award if variable rate Temporary
Bonds are issued. The City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange,
and transfer of Temporary Bonds as
provided in this Section (the “Register”) so long as any of the Temporary Bonds remain outstanding.
Subject to the provisions of this Section, the person in whose name a
Temporary Bond is registered on the
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Temporary
Bond for all purposes of the Proceedings (except as may otherwise
be required with respect to the
City’s continuing disclosure agreement pursuant to the Rule). Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Temporary Bond
shall be made only to or upon the
order of that person; neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Temporary Bond, including interest,
to the extent of the amount or
amounts so paid.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
and so long as the Temporary Bonds

1836

July 23, 2003
are issued in a book entry system,
principal of and interest on the Temporary Bonds shall be payable in
the manner provided in any agreement entered into by the Director of
Finance, in the name and on behalf
of the City, in connection with the
book entry system.
Section 6. Transfer and Exchange
of Certain Temporary Bonds. Temporary Bonds may be exchanged for
Temporary Bonds of any authorized
denomination upon presentation and
surrender at the office designated
by the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person
legally empowered to do so in a
form satisfactory to the Registrar. A
Temporary Bond may be transferred
only on the Register, upon presentation and surrender of the Temporary Bond at the office designated
by the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer, the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate, and
deliver a new Temporary Bond or
Temporary Bonds, of any authorized
denomination or authorized denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Temporary Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the same rate and
maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Temporary Bonds only
after the new Temporary Bonds are
signed by the authorized officers of
the City. In all cases of Temporary
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Temporary Bonds in accordance with the
provisions of the Proceedings. The
exchange or transfer shall be without charge to the owner, except that
the City and Registrar may make a
charge sufficient to reimburse them
for any tax or other governmental
charge required to be paid with
respect to the exchange or transfer.
The City or the Registrar may
require that those charges, if any,
be paid before the procedure is
begun for the exchange or transfer.
All Temporary Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid special obligations of the City, evidencing the
same obligation, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under the
proceedings,
as
the
Temporary
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer. Neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
required to make any exchange or
transfer of a Temporary Bond during the period beginning at the
opening of business 15 days before
the day of the mailing of a notice
of redemption of Temporary Bonds
and ending at the close of business
on the day of such mailing or to
transfer or exchange any Temporary Bond selected for redemption in
whole or in part.
Section 7. Book Entry. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Ordinance, if it is determined
by the Director of Finance to be in
the best interest of and financially
advantageous to the City, the Temporary Bonds may be issued in book
entry form in accordance with the
provisions of this Section.

July 23, 2003
The Temporary Bonds may be
issued to a Depository for use in a
book entry system and, if and as
long as a book entry system is utilized, (i) the Temporary Bonds may
be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Temporary Bond
representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered
owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository; (ii) the book
entry interest owners of Temporary
Bonds in book entry form shall have
no
right
to
receive
Temporary
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership
of book entry interests in book
entry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
participants, and transfers of the
ownership of book entry interests
shall be made only by book entry
by the Depository and its Participants;
and
(iv)
the
Temporary
Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Temporary Bonds for use in
a book entry system, the Director of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Director of Finance, after
making provision for notification of
the book entry interest owners by
the then Depository and any other
arrangements
deemed
necessary,
shall permit withdrawal of the Temporary Bonds from the Depository,
and authenticate and deliver certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance also is
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the Temporary Bonds, after determining
that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of
the form of any such agreement by
the Director of Law.
Section 8. Execution of Temporary
Bonds. Temporary Bonds shall be
signed by the Mayor and the Director of Finance, in the name of the
City and in their official capacities,
provided that either or both of those
signatures may be a facsimile, and
shall bear the seal of the City or a
facsimile thereof; provided that no
Temporary Bond shall be valid or
obligatory for any purpose or shall
be entitled to any security or benefit under the Proceedings unless and
until the certificate of authentication printed on the Temporary Bond
is signed by the Registrar as
authenticating agent, and authentication by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence that the Temporary
Bond so authenticated has been duly
issued, signed and delivered under
and is entitled to the security and
benefit of the Proceedings. The certificate of authentication may be
signed by any authorized officer or
employee of the Registrar or by any

The City Record
other person acting as an agent of
the Registrar and approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. The same person need not sign
the certificate of authentication on
all of the Temporary Bonds.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Temporary Bonds
and
shall
endorse
thereon
his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature. The Temporary Bonds
shall be issued in the denominations
as requested by the Original Purchaser and approved by the Director
of Finance, in conformity with this
Ordinance.
The
entire
principal
amount may be represented by a single bond certificate and may be
issued as fully registered securities
and in book entry or other uncertificated form if it is determined by
the
Director
of
Finance
that
issuance of fully registered securities in that form will facilitate the
sale and delivery of the Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds may
be issued in the authorized denominations of either (a) $100,000 each
or in any denomination that is the
sum of (i) $100,000 and (ii) $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof, and
not exchangeable for other Temporary Bonds in denominations less
than $100,000, or (b) $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, as determined by the Director of Finance in
the Certificate of Award to be in the
best interest of the City. The Temporary Bonds shall not have coupons
attached, shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance and shall express upon
their faces the purpose, in summary
terms, for which they are issued and
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 9. Sale of Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall
be sold at not less than 97% of par
plus accrued interest at private sale
by the Director of Finance to the
Original Purchaser in accordance
with law and the provisions of this
Ordinance. If, in the reasonable
opinion of the Director of Finance,
an underwriter is incapable of fully
performing its duties or meeting its
obligations in its capacity as Original Purchaser with respect to the
Temporary Bonds, the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever action may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser. The Director
of Finance shall sign the Certificate
of Award referred to in this Ordinance, evidencing that sale to the
Original Purchaser, cause the Temporary Bonds to be prepared, and
have the Temporary Bonds signed
and delivered, together with a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Temporary Bonds if requested by the
Original Purchaser, to the Original
Purchaser upon payment of the purchase price. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser, or representative thereof (the
“Purchase Agreement”), in substantially the form contained in the file
referenced above with such changes
therein not inconsistent with the
terms of this Ordinance and not substantially adverse to the City as
approved by the Director of Finance

1837

181
and Director of Law, such approval
to be conclusively evidenced by the
execution of the Purchase Agreement by such officers. The Director
of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Purchase
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Temporary Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or as may be appropriated
for that purpose. The Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Clerk of
Council, the Director of Law, and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are each authorized and directed to
sign
any
transcript
certificates,
financial statements and other documents and instruments and to take
such actions as are necessary or
appropriate
to
consummate
the
transactions contemplated by this
Ordinance.
Section 10. Security for the Temporary Bonds. The Temporary Bonds
shall be special obligations of the
City, and the debt charges on the
Temporary Bonds shall be payable
solely from the Revenues and the
Nontax Revenues. The Payment of
debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds is secured by a pledge of and
lien on (i) the Revenues and (ii) the
Nontax Revenues which are on
deposit in the Urban Renewal Debt
Retirement Fund created below. The
Temporary Bonds are not and shall
not be secured by an obligation or
pledge of any money raised by taxation. The Temporary Bonds do not
and shall not represent or constitute
a debt or pledge of the faith and
credit or taxing power of the City,
and the owners thereof have and
shall have no right to have taxes
levied by the City for the payment
of debt charges thereon. The Temporary Bonds shall contain a statement to that effect and to the effect
that
the
Temporary
Bonds
are
payable solely from the Revenues
and the Nontax Revenues and are
not secured by an obligation or
pledge of any money raised by taxation.
The City covenants and agrees
that while the Temporary Bonds are
outstanding, it will appropriate and
maintain Nontax Revenues at such
times and in such amounts as will
be sufficient, together with the Revenues and any other funds available
or to be available for the purpose
(including proceeds of refunding
obligations),
to
pay
the
debt
charges on the Temporary Bonds
and will so restrict other obligations
payable from Nontax Revenues prior
to or on a parity with the Temporary Bonds as will ensure the continuing availability for appropriation of sufficient Nontax Revenues
to pay debt charges when due,
which Nontax Revenues are hereby
selected by the City pursuant to Section 725.05(C) 725.07 of the Revised
Code as moneys that are not raised
by taxation.
There is hereby created by the
City a separate fund or account designated as the “Urban Renewal Debt
Retirement Fund” (the “Debt Retirement Fund”) into which shall be
deposited (i) the Revenues upon
receipt, and (ii) other Nontax Revenues, and any other funds available for the purpose, on or prior to
the date debt charges on the Temporary Bonds are due, in an amount
sufficient to pay those debt charges.
Any Revenues remaining after pay-

182
ment or provision for payment, of
all debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds shall be deposited to the
extent not otherwise pledged or
encumbered in the Housing Trust
Fund (Fund No. 14 SF 027).
Nothing herein shall be construed
as requiring the City to use or apply
to the payment of debt charges on
the Temporary Bonds any funds or
revenues from any source other than
the Revenues and the Nontax Revenues.
Nothing
herein,
however,
shall be deemed to prohibit the City,
of its own volition, from using, to
the extent that it is authorized by
law to do so, any other resources for
the fulfillment of any of the terms,
conditions or obligations of this
Ordinance or of the Temporary
Bonds.
The City will, solely from the proceeds of the Temporary Bonds or
from the Revenues or the Nontax
Revenues, pay or cause to be paid
the debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds on the dates, at the places
and in the manner provided herein
and in the Temporary Bonds. For
that purpose, in each year while the
Temporary Bonds are outstanding,
this Council, after providing for the
payment of debt charges payable on
the City’s general obligation securities in that year from sources available for that purpose, will appropriate Nontax Revenues required to
pay, and for the purpose of paying
the debt charges due in that year on
the Temporary Bonds and any outstanding parity obligations payable
from Nontax Revenues. Further, this
Council will give effect to such
appropriations in all ordinances it
passes thereafter in that year appropriating money for expenditure and
encumbrance and limit the other
appropriations of Nontax Revenues
in that year to the amount available
after deducting the amount required
for the payment of debt charges
payable on the City’s general obligation securities and to pay those
debt charges. The City covenants
that, so long as any of the Temporary Bonds are outstanding, it shall
not issue any additional obligations
payable from the Nontax Revenues
on a parity with the Temporary
Bonds and any outstanding parity
obligations payable from Nontax
Revenues, unless, prior to passage
of the ordinance authorizing such
parity obligations, the Director of
Finance shall have certified to this
Council that the Nontax Revenues
during the preceding calendar year,
adjusted to reflect, if necessary,
changes in the rates or charges
resulting in the Nontax Revenues,
aggregate in amount not less than
100% of the highest amount of (a)
debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds to be paid from Nontax Revenues and (b) required payments on
such proposed parity obligations
and any outstanding parity obligations due in any succeeding calendar year.
Each
obligation
of
the
City
required to be undertaken pursuant
to this Ordinance and the Temporary Bonds is binding upon the City,
and upon each officer or employee
of the City as may from time to time
have the authority under law to
take any action on behalf of the
City as may be necessary to perform
all or any part of such obligation as
a duty of the City and of each of
those officers and employees resulting from an office, trust or station
within
the
meaning
of
Section
2731.01 of the Revised Code, provid-

The City Record
ing for enforcement by writ of mandamus.
In the event that the interest on
the Temporary Bonds is to be provided for from Temporary Bond proceeds, or if in the judgment of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of the Financial
Advisor, a debt service reserve to
secure the Temporary Bonds is in
the best interest of and financially
advantageous to the City, the City
shall enter into a trust agreement
with the bank or trust company
serving as Registrar for the Temporary Bonds and providing for the
Debt Retirement Fund or a debt service reserve fund, as applicable, to
be held by that bank or trust company, in its capacity as trustee, and
such fund or funds are hereby
authorized. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, the trust
agreement in a form consistent with
this Ordinance and approved by the
Director of Law. The Mayor and the
Director of Finance and other City
officials, as appropriate, are authorized to take such actions as are
necessary or appropriate to consummate such additional security for
the Temporary Bonds. The City
hereby covenants and agrees to
appropriate annually from the Revenues and the Nontax Revenues into
any such funds amounts sufficient
to maintain the balances required
by the trust agreement and to
restore any deficiency therein.
Section 11. Deposit of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Temporary Bonds are appropriated
and shall be used for the purpose
for which the Temporary Bonds are
being issued. The proceeds from the
sale of the Temporary Bonds (exclusive of amounts to be used to pay
Financing Costs which shall be
deposited in a separate Costs of
Issuance Account) shall be deposited in the Debt Retirement Fund to
be used to refund the Prior Bonds
Series 2002 and, if applicable, to pay
interest on the Temporary Bonds;
provided that any portion of the proceeds of the Temporary Bonds to be
used to make a required deposit to
a debt service reserve fund shall be
paid into the debt service reserve
fund created pursuant to Section 10.
Any premium not used to pay costs
of issuance and accrued interest
received from the sale of the Temporary Bonds shall be deposited in
the Debt Retirement Fund.
Section 12. Disclosure. If, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
after consultation with the Financial Advisor and the Original Purchaser, an official statement or
other disclosure document is appropriate relating to the initial offering
of the Temporary Bonds, the Director of Finance, on behalf of the City
and in that officer’s official capacity, is authorized to (i) cooperate
with the Original Purchaser in the
preparation of, and the making of
modifications,
completions
or
changes of or supplements to, such
a disclosure document, (ii) determine, and to certify or otherwise
represent, when the disclosure document is to be deemed final or is
final, (iii) authorize the use and distribution of that disclosure document and any supplements thereto
in connection with the initial offering of the Temporary Bonds, (iv)
notwithstanding the requirements
of, and as an exception to, Codified

1838

July 23, 2003
Ordinance 177.01(a), contract with a
printer to print the Official Statement, and (v) sign certificates,
statements or other documents in
connection with the finality, accuracy, and completeness of that disclosure document.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Temporary Bonds, the City
agrees, as the only obligated person
with
respect
to
the
Temporary
Bonds under the Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information
and
operating
data,
audited financial statements and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of paragraph
(b)(5)(i) of the Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms
of the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose and
thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment, and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, and if required under
the Rule, a Continuing Disclosure
Certificate or Certificates in conformance
with
the
reporting
requirements of the Rule. The agreement formed collectively, by this
paragraph and that Certificate, shall
be the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for purposes of the Rule,
and its performance shall be subject
to the annual appropriation of any
funds that may be necessary to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Section 13. Ratings, Insurance,
and Other Credit Enhancement. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance after consultation with the
Financial Advisor, the filing of an
application for a rating on the Temporary Bonds by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies or a
Credit Support Instrument is in the
best interest of, and financially
advantageous to the City, the Director of Finance is authorized to prepare and submit those applications,
to provide to each such agency, company or credit provider such information as may be required for the
purpose. The cost of obtaining each
rating and Credit Support Instrument, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchaser in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds.
Section 14. Interest Rate Swaps,
Hedges and Caps. For the purpose
of achieving the optimal available
debt structure for the Temporary
Bonds, the Director of Finance may,
based on the written advice of the
Financial Advisor, enter into one or
more agreements in connection with

July 23, 2003
or subsequent to the issuance of the
Temporary Bonds for an interest
rate swap, an interest rate cap or
other such arrangement to lower the
effective interest rate on the obligation to the City or, to hedge the
exposure of the City against fluctuations in prevailing interest rates,
provided, however, that: (i) the debt
structure that is simulated through
the combination of the Temporary
Bonds with any such agreements
shall comply with the restrictions of
this Ordinance on the terms of and
security for the Temporary Bonds
applied to that structure as though
it consisted solely of Temporary
Bonds; (ii) the counterparty to any
swap agreement and the provider of
any interest rate cap shall have a
rating of at least “A” by either
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. or
Standard & Poor’s Corporation; (iii)
no such agreement shall purport to
entitle
the
counterparty
to
the
agreement to payment by the City
from any source other than the
sources which secure the Temporary
Bonds as described in this Ordinance; and (iv) the cost of obtaining any such interest rate cap or
other such arrangement shall have
been determined by the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of the Financial Advisor, to
be justified by the corresponding
benefit to the City and to be commercially reasonably based on then
current
market
conditions.
The
notional amount on which any such
agreement is based shall not be subject to the limitations set forth herein
on
the
maximum
principal
amount of the Temporary Bonds.
Section 15. Covenants. In the event
that
the
Temporary
Bonds
are
issued and sold as obligations bearing interest that is excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, the covenants in this Section 15 shall govern. However, if the
Temporary Bonds are issued and
sold as obligations bearing interest
that is included in gross income for
federal income tax purposes, the
City shall not be bound by the
covenants
of
this
Section
with
respect to the Temporary Bonds.
Subject to the foregoing, the City
covenants that it will use and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Temporary Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds
under Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the “Code”) or (ii) be
treated other than as bonds to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
and (b) the interest on the Temporary Bonds will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code. The City further
covenants that (a) it will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest on the Temporary Bonds to be
and remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting
for it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing,
(ii) restrict the yield on investment
property, (iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal gov-

The City Record
ernment, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable,
of
property
financed
with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to
assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Temporary Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Temporary Bonds as
the City is permitted to or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting the favorable tax
treatment or status of the Temporary Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Temporary Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Temporary Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Temporary Bonds.
Section 16. Captions, Headings,
and Section References. The captions and headings in this Ordinance
are solely for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit, or
describe the scope or intent of any
Sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, or clauses hereof.
Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 17. Interpretation. Any pro visions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the Temporary
Bonds
authorized
herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall
be applied in any manner as would
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, Temporary Bonds,
certificate of indebtedness, other
obligations, trust indentures, trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City.

1839

183
Section 18. Satisfaction of Conditions. This Council determines that
all acts and conditions necessary to
be done or performed by the City or
to have been met precedent to and
in the issuing of the Temporary
Bonds in order to make them legal,
valid, and binding special obligations of the City have been performed and have been met, or will
at the time of deliver of the Temporary Bonds have been performed
and have been met, in regular and
due form as required by law, and
that no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional,
is
applicable
to
the
issuance of the Temporary Bonds.
Section 19. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council
finds and determines that all formal
actions of this Council and any of
its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance
were taken in an open meeting of
this Council or committees, and that
all deliberations of this Council and
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, all in
compliance with the law.
Section 20. Emergency. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an
emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1183-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 345.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 433-97, passed June 12,
1997, relating to General Industry
Districts; and to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new
Section 325.571 relating to rock
crushing.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 345.04 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 433-97, passed June 12,
1997, is amended to read as follows:
Section 345.04 General Industry
Districts
(a) Permitted Buildings and Uses.
Within any General Industry District the following buildings or uses
are permitted; no building or premises
shall
hereafter
be
erected,
altered, used, arranged or designed
to be used, in whole or in part for
other than one or more of the following specified uses:
(1) All buildings and uses permitted in a Semi-Industry District
without the restrictions contained in
Section 345.03 applying to such
buildings or uses except that:
A. Loading or unloading platforms
of motor freight depots or trucking
terminals shall not be less than fifty
feet from the street line unless such
platforms are so located that freight
handling vehicles will not stand or

184
maneuver in the space between the
platform and the street line.
B. Dusty material storage and
handling shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions of Section
347.05.
C. All buildings and uses shall
conform to other applicable regulations of this Zoning Code and other
applicable
statutes,
ordinances,
rules or regulations.
(2) Any industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or other nonresidential
use, except the uses hereinafter listed as prohibited uses in a General
Industry District.
(3) The open yard storage of secondhand lumber or other used building material, junk, paper, rags,
unrepaired or uncleaned containers
or other salvaged articles provided
such uses are enclosed within a minimum seven-foot high solid masonry
wall or slightly solid, non-transparent,
well-maintained
substantial
fence not closer to the street line
than the setback building line and
not closer than fifty feet to any Residence District. Such wall or fence
may have one opening not more
than twenty feet in width for street
access, and may have two such
openings if the wall or fence along
the street is more than 200 feet in
length.
(4) The operation of wrecking or
dismantling of motor vehicles, or
the storage of motor vehicles, pending wrecking or dismantling, in
areas with a minimum area of 50,000
square feet providing such premises
is enclosed within a minimum sevenfoot high solid masonry wall or
slightly solid, nontransparent, wellmaintained substantial fence. Such
wall or fence may have one opening
not more than twenty feet in width
for street access and may have two
such openings if the wall or fence
along the street is more than 200
feet in length. All walls or fences
referred to in this chapter shall be
neatly constructed, kept in good
order and repair; no printing, lettering or advertisement shall be made
part of or attached thereto or painted on the outside of the wall or
fence, except that a sign located at
the entrance to the yard may be provided to identify the yard.
(5) The sale or storage for sale of
liquefied petroleum gases and acetylene and other compressed or liquefied gases of a highly flammable
nature.
(6) Buildings and structures in
Use Group I-3 in the Ohio Basic
Building Code but only at the State
of Ohio Pre-Release Center located
on Orange Avenue.
(b) Accessory Uses by Special Per mit. The following uses are prohibited as the main or primary use of
the premises; they are permitted
only as uses accessory or incidental
to a permitted use and only if
approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals through a Special Permit
granted in accordance with the standards of division (c) of this section:
(1) Asphalt or tar manufacturing
or refining.
(2) Blast furnaces, ore smelting or
reduction, metal refining or smelting.
(3) Carbon, coke or lampblack
manufacture.
(4) Coal gas manufacture.
(5) Cremation within 300 feet of a
Residence District.
(6) Creosote manufacture or treatment.
(7) Dextrine, glucose or starch
manufacture.

The City Record
(8) Disinfectant or insecticide
manufacture which emits offensive
odors.
(9) Dye stuffs manufacture.
(10) Manufacture of steel by the
Bessemer process.
(11) Match manufacture.
(12) Oil cloth or linoleum manufacture.
(13) Paper and pulp manufacturing by sulphite processes emitting
noxious gases or odors.
(14) Production or refining of
petroleum or other flammable liquids.
(15) Rock crushing.
(16) Rubber manufacture by reclaiming processes.
(17) Stock feed manufacture from
refuse.
(18) Tanning, curing or storing of
raw hides or skins.
(19) Wool pulling or scouring.
(20) Hair processing.
(21) Any other trade, industry or
use that will be no more injurious,
hazardous,
noxious
or
offensive
than the enterprises listed in division (b) of this section.
(c) Special Permits. In evaluating
applications
for
Special
Permits
required by division (b) of this section, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall act to ensure that the proposed
use
or
development
does
not
adversely impact other properties
and the uses located on those properties.
(1) Criteria for Special Permits.
In its evaluation of potentially
adverse impacts, the Board shall
consider, among others, the following factors:
A. the degree to which dust,
smoke, cinders, heat, flares, odor,
fumes, gases, radioactive materials,
glare, noise, vibration and other
potentially harmful emissions or
externalities are effectively confined to the premises of the proposed use;
B. the nature and proximity of
nearby uses with respect to their
vulnerability to the off-site impacts
of the proposed use;
C. the extent to which impacts of
the proposed use are comparable to
the
impacts
typically
associated
with uses permitted in the General
Industry
District
without
the
requirement for issuance of a Special Permit;
D. hours of operation of the proposed use;
E. hazards associated with combustible, flammable or explosive
materials on the property of the proposed use;
F. the potential for adverse impacts
to streams, rivers and lakes; and
G. potentially mitigating effects
of landscaping, buffering, or topographical features.
(2) Applications for Special Permits. The applicant for a Special
Permit in the General Industry District shall submit to the Board of
Zoning
Appeals
an
application
demonstrating that the proposed use
will not adversely impact other
properties, specifically with respect
to the factors listed in this division.
In evaluating the application, the
Board may solicit comments from
City officials or others with appropriate technical expertise.
(d) Buildings and Uses Prohibited.
(1) In a General Industry District
no building or premises shall hereafter be erected, altered or arranged
for human habitation other than at
the State of Ohio Pre-Release Center
located on Orange Avenue, except
that the Board of Zoning Appeals

1840

July 23, 2003
may grant special permission for
temporary dwellings or for permanent dwellings for a limited number
of personnel required to reside on
the premises of a permitted use for
the safe and proper operation of
that use.
As used in this section,
the term “human habitation” shall
not include single-night accommodations provided on the premises of an
educational institution or museum
for participation in educational programs;
(2) In a General Industry District
no building or premises shall hereafter
be
erected,
altered,
used,
arranged or designed to be used, in
whole or in part, for any of the following uses:
A. Acid manufacture, including
hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, picric
acid, sulphuric acid, and sulphurous
acid.
B. Ammonia, bleaching powder,
soda, soda compound, potash or chlorine manufacturing or refining.
C. Bronze powder or other metallic powder manufacture.
D. Cement, gypsum, lime, or plaster of Paris manufacture.
E. Distillation of bones, coal or
wood, or manufacture of any of the
by-products of such distillation.
F. Fat, grease, lard or tallow manufacturing, rendering or refining.
G. Fertilizer manufacture from
phosphates or organic matter.
H. Gelatine, glue or size manufacture.
I. Incineration or reduction of
dead animals, garbage, offal or
refuse, except in a private incinerator constructed and operated as
required by Section 337.23.
J.
Manufacture
of
incendiary
devices, pyrotechnical devices, fireworks, and other explosives, or the
storage thereof.
K. Mineral insulation manufacture.
L. Rayon manufacture.
M.
Slaughtering
of
animals,
except poultry.
N. Stockyards.
O. Any other trade, industry or use
that will be injurious, hazardous,
noxious, or offensive to an extent
equal to or greater than any one of
the enterprises enumerated in division (c)(2) of this section.
Section 2. That Section 345.04 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 433-97, passed June 12,
1997, is repealed.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 325.571 to read as follows:
Section 325.571 Rock Crushing
“Rock Crushing” means any activity that uses mechanical processes
to break down rock into gravel or
other
small
particulate
matter.
Rock means any man-made or naturally formed consolidated or coherent and relatively hard mass of
material including but not limited to
stone, concrete, cement, asphalt, conglomerate or any similar material.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1193-03.
By Council Members Johnson and
Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1956-98,
passed December 7, 1998, relating to
a requirement contract of various
plumbing and heating equipment
and
supplies,
including
related
materials and supplies, for the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, for a period of three
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1956-98, passed December
7, 1998, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $310,000
and shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
21709)
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1956-98, passed December
7, 1998, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1240-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase properties
for the purpose of expanding homeowner’s yards along the I-176 Jennings Freeway from the Ohio Department
of
Transportation;
and
authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to convey the
properties to adjacent homeowners.
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
purchase of properties which are
along the I-176 Jennings Freeway
for the purpose of expanding homeowner’s yards; and
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
sale of these properties to adjacent
property owners; and
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has determined
that sale of these properties to adjacent property owners is a satisfactory means of achieving redevelopment of the properties; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following properties
for the purpose of expanding homeowner’s properties:
Parcels 1160 WL, 1159 WL, 1158
WL, 1157 WL and 1156 WL
Portions of Permanent Parcel Nos.
009-36-006, 009-36-007, 009-36-008,
009-25-011, 009-25-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
81
and
further
bounded
and
described as follows;
Beginning at a 1" iron pin monument found on the centerline of Jennings Road, 60 feet wide, said point
being North 18° 38' 00" East, 49.37
feet from the intersection of the centerlines
of
Jennings
Road
and
Spring Road, 60 feet wide;
Thence North 18° 38' 00" East
along the centerline of Jennings
Road, 496.40 feet to a point;
Thence South 71° 22' 00" East,
30.00 feet to a 3/4" iron pipe found
(0.64 feet south and 0.17 feet east)
on the Easterly line of Jennings
Road at the Northwest corner of
land
conveyed
to
Allen
B.
Benkalowycz and Bobbie Sue Hiber
by deed recorded in Volume 98-2804,
Page
09
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and the principal point of
beginning of the premises herein
described;
Thence North 18° 38' 00" East
along the Easterly line of Jennings
Road, 382.96 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set;
Thence South 05° 36' 45" East,
304.40 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence South 10° 32' 05" West,
106.46 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
the Northerly line of land so conveyed to aforesaid Allen B. Benkalowycz and Bobbie Sue Hiber;
Thence North 71° 22' 00" West
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed, 170.00 feet to the principal point of beginning and containing 0.7189 acres of land as
described and surveyed by Edward
B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747 of North
Coast Engineering and Surveying
Co., Inc. in July, 2001, be the same,
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Note: All 5/8" iron pins set and
capped, E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747
Parcels 1237 WL and 1238 WL
Portion of Permanent Parcel No.
009-30-046
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 40 and 41 in the Plymouth Development Incorporated,
Valley View Subdivision as shown
by the recorded Plat in Volume 178,
Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records and part of Sublot No. 105
in Paris Development Corporation
Valley View Subdivision No.2 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 184, Page 44 of Cuyahoga County Map Records and being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
82,
and
further
bounded
and
described as follows;

1841

185
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin set
on the Easterly line of West 11th
Street (50.00 feet wide) at the Northwest corner of land conveyed to
Richard L. and Lori A. Calabreese
by deed recorded in Volume 89-6088,
Page
54
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records at the Southwesterly corner
of said Sublot No. 105;
Thence along the curved Easterly
line of West 11th Street deflecting
to the left, an arc of 115.08 feet, said
curve having a radius of 365.00 feet
and a chord that bears North 13° 42'
04" West, 114.59 to a 5/8" iron pin
set;
Thence North 51° 01' 41" East,
32.06 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence South 37° 41' 57" East,
165.58 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
the Northerly line of land so conveyed to aforesaid Calabreese and
the Southerly line of Sublot No. 105;
Thence South 89° 43' 17" West
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed and the Southerly line of
Sublot No. 105, 99.01 feet to the Easterly line of West 11th Street and the
point of beginning and containing
0.1797 acres of land as described and
surveyed by E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No.
6747 of North Coast Engineering and
Surveying Co., Inc. in July 2001 be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Note: All 5/8" iron pins set and
capped with E.B. Dudley P.L.S. No.
6747.
Parcels 1206 WL
Portion of Permanent Parcel No.
009-32-010
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
25 and part of Sublot 32 in South
Hills Estates, of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 81, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 169, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County
Map
Records
and
further
described as follows;
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin found
(0.07 feet North) on the curved culde-sac of West 10th Place, 50 feet
wide, at the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot No. 25;
Thence North 77° 11' 26" East
along the Northerly line of Sublot
No. 25, 90.89 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set at the Northeasterly corner
thereof;
Thence South 42° 08' 20" East
along an Easterly line of Sublot No:
25, 32.33 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
at an Easterly corner thereof;
Thence North 89° 30' 42" East
along the Northerly line of Sublot
No. 32, 26.12 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set;
Thence South 19° 17' 25" West,
95.66 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
a Southerly line of Sublot 32;
Thence South 89° 30' 42" West
along a Southerly line of Sublot No.
32, 26.12 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
at a Southwesterly corner thereof;
Thence North 19° 17' 25" East
along a Westerly line of Sublot No.
32, 21.63 feet to a 1 “ iron pin found
(0.12 feet North and 0.06 feet West)
at the Southwest corner thereof;
Thence North 65° 03' 24" West
along the Southerly line of Sublot
No. 25, 98.47 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
found (0.03 feet North and 0.07 feet
West) at the curved cul-de-sac of
West 10th Place;
Thence along the curved cul-desac of West 10th Place deflecting to
the left, an arc of 32.95 feet, said

186
curve having a radius of 50.00 feet
and a chord that bears North 6° 04'
01" East, 32.35 feet to the point of
beginning and containing 0.2062
acres of land as described and surveyed by Edward B. Dudley, P. L.S.
No. 6747 of North Coast Engineering
and Surveying Co., Inc. in July, 2001,
be the same, more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Note: AI/5/8" iron pins set and
capped, E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747.
Parcels 2523 WL
Portion of Permanent Parcel No.
010-27-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and being part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 79, and
further described as follows;
Beginning at a 1" iron pin monument found in the centerline of
Schaaf Road, 50 feet wide, at an
angle point at Station 22+97.95 (Ohio
Department of Transportation);
Thence North 60° 37' 53" West
along the centerline of Schaaf Road,
44.92 feet to a point at Station
22+53.03;
Thence North 29° 33' 07" East,
25.00 feet to a point on the Northeasterly line of Schaaf Road at its
intersection with the northwest line
of
land
conveyed
to
Kevin
J.
McCabe by deed recorded in Volume
91-7220, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County
Records, said point being the principal point of beginning for the parcel herein described;
Thence North 60° 37' 53" West
along the Northeasterly line of
Schaaf Road, 67.50 feet to a 5/8"
iron pin set;
Thence North 29° 33' 07" East,
18.88 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence North 60° 49' 08" West, 9.46
feet to a 5/8" iron pin set; Thence
North 22° 10' 23" East, 20.32 feet to
a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence North 12° 25' 01" East,
134.84 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
the Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Charter One Bank by deed
recorded in Volume 96-12062, Page 24
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence South 60° 37' 53" East
along the Southeasterly line of land
so conveyed, 119.30 feet to a 5/8"
iron pin set at the northeast corner
of land conveyed to aforesaid Kevin
J. McCabe;
Thence South 29° 33' 07" West
along the Southwesterly line of land
so conveyed, 168.00 feet to the principal point of beginning and containing 0.3599 acres of land as
described and surveyed by Edward
B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747 of North
Coast Engineering and Surveying
Co., Inc. in July, 2001, be the same,
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Note: All 5/8" iron pins set and
capped, E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No.
6747.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire and to convey
these properties and to employ and
pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental audits, and all other costs
necessary for the acquisition of
these properties.
Section 3. That all costs of acquisition of properties shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.

The City Record
Section 4. That this Council finds
that the acquisition and conveyance
of the property to the adjacent
homeowners for redevelopment constitutes a public purpose.
Section 5. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
following property described below
to Gregory T. Czandel, at a price not
less than fair market value of the
property taking into account all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances placed by
the City of Cleveland in the deed or
deeds of conveyance:
Parcels 1206 WL
Portion of Permanent Parcel No.
009-32-010
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
25 and part of Sublot 32 in South
Hills Estates, of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 81, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 169, Page 14 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records and further
described as follows;
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin found
(0.07 feet North) on the curved culde-sac of West 10th Place, 50 feet
wide, at the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot No. 25;
Thence North 77° 11' 26" East
along the Northerly line of Sublot
No. 25, 90.89 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set at the Northeasterly corner
thereof;
Thence South 42° 08' 20" East
along an Easterly line of Sublot No:
25, 32.33 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
at an Easterly corner thereof;
Thence North 89° 30' 42" East
along the Northerly line of Sublot
No. 32, 26.12 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set;
Thence South 19° 17' 25" West,
95.66 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
a Southerly line of Sublot 32;
Thence South 89° 30' 42" West
along a Southerly line of Sublot No.
32, 26.12 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
at a Southwesterly corner thereof;
Thence North 19° 17' 25" East
along a Westerly line of Sublot No.
32, 21.63 feet to a 1" iron pin found
(0.12 feet North and 0.06 feet West)
at the Southwest corner thereof;
Thence North 65° 03' 24" West
along the Southerly line of Sublot
No. 25, 98.47 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
found (0.03 feet North and 0.07 feet
West) at the curved cul-de-sac of
West 10th Place;
Thence along the curved cul-desac of West 10th Place deflecting to
the left, an arc of 32.95 feet, said
curve having a radius of 50.00 feet
and a chord that bears North 6° 04'
01" East, 32.35 feet to the point of
beginning and containing 0.2062
acres of land as described and surveyed by Edward B. Dudley, P. L.S.
No. 6747 of North Coast Engineering
and Surveying Co., Inc. in July, 2001,
be the same, more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Note: AI/5/8" iron pins set and
capped, E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No.
6747.
Section 6. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
following property described below
to James S. Higgins and Paulette C.
Higgins, at a price not less than fair

1842

July 23, 2003
market value of the property taking
into account all restrictions, reversionary interests and similar encumbrances placed by the City of Cleveland in the deed or deeds of conveyance:
Parcels 2523 WL
Portion of Permanent Parcel No.
010-27-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and being part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 79, and
further described as follows;
Beginning at a 1" iron pin monument found in the centerline of
Schaaf Road, 50 feet wide, at an
angle point at Station 22+97.95
(Ohio Department of Transportation);
Thence North 60° 37' 53" West
along the centerline of Schaaf Road,
44.92 feet to a point at Station
22+53.03;
Thence North 29° 33' 07" East,
25.00 feet to a point on the Northeasterly line of Schaaf Road at its
intersection with the northwest line
of
land
conveyed
to
Kevin
J.
McCabe by deed recorded in Volume
91-7220, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County
Records, said point being the principal point of beginning for the parcel herein described;
Thence North 60° 37' 53" West
along the Northeasterly line of
Schaaf Road, 67.50 feet to a 5/8"
iron pin set;
Thence North 29° 33' 07" East,
18.88 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence North 60° 49' 08" West, 9.46
feet to a 5/8" iron pin set; Thence
North 22° 10' 23" East, 20.32 feet to
a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence North 12° 25' 01" East,
134.84 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
the Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Charter One Bank by deed
recorded in Volume 96-12062, Page 24
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence South 60° 37' 53" East
along the Southeasterly line of land
so conveyed, 119.30 feet to a 5/8"
iron pin set at the northeast corner
of land conveyed to aforesaid Kevin
J. McCabe;
Thence South 29° 33' 07" West
along the Southwesterly line of land
so conveyed, 168.00 feet to the principal point of beginning and containing 0.3599 acres of land as
described and surveyed by Edward
B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747 of North
Coast Engineering and Surveying
Co., Inc. in July, 2001, be the same,
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Note: All 5/8" iron pins set and
capped, E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No.
6747.
Section 7. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
following property described below
to Mary Masters, at a price not less
than fair market value of the property taking into account all restrictions, reversionary interests and
similar encumbrances placed by the
City of Cleveland in the deed or
deeds of conveyance:
Parcels 1237 WL and 1238 WL
Portion of Permanent Parcel No.
009-30-046
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of

July 23, 2003
Sublot Nos. 40 and 41 in the Plymouth Development Incorporated,
Valley View Subdivision as shown
by the recorded Plat in Volume 178,
Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records and part of Sublot No. 105
in Paris Development Corporation
Valley View Subdivision No. 2 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 184, Page 44 of Cuyahoga County Map Records and being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
82,
and
further
bounded
and
described as follows;
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin set
on the Easterly line of West 11th
Street (50.00 feet wide) at the Northwest corner of land conveyed to
Richard L. and Lori A. Calabreese
by deed recorded in Volume 89-6088,
Page
54
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records at the Southwesterly corner
of said Sublot No. 105;
Thence along the curved Easterly
line of West 11th Street deflecting to
the left, an arc of 115.08 feet, said
curve having a radius of 365.00 feet
and a chord that bears North 13° 42'
04" West, 114.59 to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence North 51° 01' 41" East,
32.06 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence South 37° 41' 57" East,
165.58 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
the Northerly line of land so conveyed to aforesaid Calabreese and
the Southerly line of Sublot No. 105;
Thence South 89° 43' 17" West
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed and the Southerly line of
Sublot No. 105, 99.01 feet to the Easterly line of West 11th Street and the
point of beginning and containing
0.1797 acres of land as described and
surveyed by E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No.
6747 of North Coast Engineering and
Surveying Co., Inc. in July 2001 be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Note: All 5/8" iron pins set and
capped with E.B. Dudley P.L.S. No.
6747.
Section 8. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
following property described below
to Ronald W. Hangauer, at a price
not less than fair market value of
the property taking into account all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances placed by
the City of Cleveland in the deed or
deeds of conveyance:
Parcels 1160 WL, 1159 WL, 1158
WL, 1157 WL and 1156 WL
Portions of Permanent Parcel Nos.
009-36-006, 009-36-007, 009-36-008, 00925-011, 009-25-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
81
and
further
bounded
and
described as follows;
Beginning at a 1" iron pin monument found on the centerline of Jennings Road, 60 feet wide, said point
being North 18° 38' 00" East, 49.37
feet from the intersection of the centerlines
of
Jennings
Road
and
Spring Road, 60 feet wide;
Thence North 18° 38' 00" East
along the centerline of Jennings
Road, 496.40 feet to a point;
Thence South 71° 22' 00" East,
30.00 feet to a 3/4" iron pipe found
(0.64 feet south and 0.17 feet east)
on the Easterly line of Jennings
Road at the Northwest corner of

The City Record
land
conveyed
to
Allen
B.
Benkalowycz and Bobbie Sue Hiber
by deed recorded in Volume 98-2804,
Page
09
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and the principal point of
beginning of the premises herein
described;
Thence North 18° 38' 00" East
along the Easterly line of Jennings
Road, 382.96 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set;
Thence South 05° 36' 45" East,
304.40 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Thence South 10° 32' 05" West,
106.46 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set on
the Northerly line of land so conveyed to aforesaid Allen B. Benkalowycz and Bobbie Sue Hiber;
Thence North 71° 22' 00" West
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed, 170.00 feet to the principal point of beginning and containing 0.7189 acres of land as
described and surveyed by Edward
B. Dudley, P.L.S. No. 6747 of North
Coast Engineering and Surveying
Co., Inc. in July, 2001, be the same,
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Note: All 5/8" iron pins set and
capped, E. B. Dudley, P.L.S. No.
6747.
Section 9. That the conveyances
shall be made by official deed or
deeds to be prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed or deeds shall
contain such necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require
and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any
advertising
signs
or
billboards
except
permitted
identification
signs.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1241-03.
By Council Member Scott (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the Clean Ohio Assistance Fund, for a Clean Ohio Assessment Grant for a Phase II environmental assessment on property formerly known as the White Motors
facility located at East 79th Street
and St. Clair Avenue; and authorizing the director to enter into contracts with East 79th Street Retail
Associates, LLC/East 79th Street
Associates, LLC to implement the
project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1843

187
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the amount of $340,600,
from the Clean Ohio Assistance
Fund, for a Clean Ohio Assessment
Grant to conduct a Phase II environmental assessment on property
formerly
known
as
the
White
Motors facility located at East 79th
Street and St. Clair Avenue.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the summary
for the grant.
Section 3. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1241-03-A, made a
part as if fully rewritten herein, is
approved in all respects.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
East 79th Street Retail Associates,
LLC/East 79th Street Associates,
LLC to implement the environmental assessment project as described
in the summary.
Section 5. That the contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
only be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain terms and
conditions as the Director deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Section 6. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
the fund or funds that are credited
the proceeds of the grant accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1242-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development
to
apply
for
and
accept a grant from the Clean Ohio
Assistance Fund, for a Clean Ohio
Assessment Grant for a Phase II
environmental assessment on property formerly known as the National Screw & Manufacturing Company located in the Quincy Business
Park at East 75th Street and Quincy Avenue; and authorizing the
director to enter into contracts
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. to implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the amount of $128,405,
from the Clean Ohio Assistance

188
Fund, for a Clean Ohio Assessment
Grant to conduct a Phase II environmental assessment on property
formerly known as the National
Screw & Manufacturing Company
located in the Quincy Business Park
at East 75th Street and Quincy
Avenue.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the summary
for the grant.
Section 3. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1242-03-A, made a
part as if fully rewritten herein, is
approved in all respects.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corp. to conduct a Phase II environmental assessment project as
described in the summary.
Section 5.
That the contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain terms and conditions as the Director deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall only be paid
from the fund or funds that are
credited the proceeds of the grant
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1243-03.
By Council Member Rybka (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the Clean Ohio Revitalization Fund, for a Clean Ohio Revitalization Grant for the demolition
of the existing structure and the
remediation on property formerly
known
as
Cleveland
Pneumatic
located at 3781 East 77th Street; and
authorizing the director to enter
into contracts with The General
Investment Funds Real Estate Holding Company to implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the amount of $2,800,000,
from the Clean Ohio Revitalization
Fund, for a Clean Ohio Revitalization Grant to conduct the demolition of the existing structure and
the remediation on property formerly known as Cleveland Pneu-

The City Record
matic located at 3781 East 77th
Street.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the summary
for the grant.
Section 3. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1243-03-A, made a
part as if fully rewritten herein, is
approved in all respects.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
The General Investment Funds Real
Estate Holding Company to implement the brownfield remediation
project as described in the summary.
Section 5. That the contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain terms and conditions as the Director deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That the cost of the
contracts authorized shall only be
paid from the fund or funds that
are credited the proceeds of the
grant accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1244-03.
By Council Member Coats (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the Clean Ohio Assistance Fund, for a Clean Ohio Assessment Grant for a Phase II environmental assessment on property formerly known as the LTV Copperweld site located at 12610 Kirby
Avenue; and authorizing the director to enter into contracts with 12610
Kirby Avenue LLC to implement the
project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the amount of $76,000, from
the Clean Ohio Assistance Fund, for
a Clean Ohio Assessment Grant to
update a Phase II environmental
assessment on property formerly
known as the LTV Copperweld site
located at 12610 Kirby Avenue.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the

1844

July 23, 2003
purposes set forth in the summary
for the grant.
Section 3. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1244-03-A, made a
part as if fully rewritten herein, is
approved in all respects.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contracts with
12610 Kirby Avenue LLC to implement the environmental assessment
project as described in the summary.
Section 5.
That the contracts
authorized by this ordinance shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain terms and conditions as the Director deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That the cost of the
contracts authorized shall only be
paid from the fund or funds that
are credited the proceeds of the
grant accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1245-03.
By Council Member Britt (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Overlook Ventures, LLC to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the construction
and historic renovation of the former First Church of Christ Scientist
building at 2188 Overlook Road, and
all other associated costs to redevelop the property located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contract with
Overlook Ventures, LLC to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the construction
and historic renovation of the former First Church of Christ Scientist
building at 2188 Overlook Road, and
all other associated costs to redevelop the property located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 1245-03-A.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract shall not exceed Three
Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars
($350,000), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 008, which funds are
appropriated for this purpose, Request No. 103710.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is author-

July 23, 2003
ized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the Summary contained in
the file referenced above in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
security instrument shall be prepared and approved by the Director
of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in an
amount not to exceed the maximum
allowable fees under federal regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in the
preparation of the loan application,
closing and servicing of the loan.
The fees shall be deposited to and
expended from Fund No. 17 SF 305,
Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
contract and other documents that
are appropriate to complete the
transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1246-03.
By Council Member Britt (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into Enterprise
Zone Agreements with Nottingham
Spirk Design Associates, Inc. and
Overlook Ventures, LLC to provide
for ten year seventy-five percent tax
abatements for certain real property improvements and acquisition of
personal property as an incentive to
construct a new facility at 2188
Overlook Road in the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council designated an area which is in
the City of Cleveland and described
in File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Ohio
Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone contains the characteristics in Section
5709.61(A) of the Revised Code and
certified the area as an “Urban Jobs
and Enterprise Zone” under Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code; and
Whereas, Nottingham Spirk Design Associates, Inc. has proposed to
relocate its facility to 2188 Overlook
Road in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; and
Whereas, Nottingham Spirk Design Associates, Inc. has certified
to the City it would be at a competitive disadvantage operating at
this location if taxes on certain tangible personal property and real

The City Record
property improvements were not
abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, safety,
property, and welfare and that its
enactment is a necessary prerequisite to providing immediate assistance to create and preserve job
opportunities and advance and promote
commercial
and
economic
development in the City of Cleveland, and the assistance is immediately necessary or jobs will be lost;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the application of Nottingham Spirk Design Associates, Inc.
and Overlook Ventures, LLC for
enterprise zone incentives on the
basis that the Nottingham Spirk
Design Associates, Inc. and Overlook Ventures, LLC are qualified by
financial responsibility and business
experience to create and preserve
employment opportunities in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone and
to improve the economic climate of
the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Nottingham
Spirk Design Associates, Inc. and
Overlook Ventures, LLC to provide
for a ten year seventy-five percent
(75%) tax abatement on real property
improvements
and
for
the
acquisition of personal property, as
an incentive to construct and renovate the facility located at 2188
Overlook Road in the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone; the abatement shall be subject to annual
review of the Tax Incentive Review
Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the
both tax abatements shall be in
accordance with the terms in the
Summary contained in File No. 124603-A. These terms shall not be
amended, nor shall the tax abatements be assignable or transferable
to any entity, without the prior legislative authorization by Cleveland
City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
listed in Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve the
agreements and that the agreements
shall contain the terms and provisions the director deems necessary
to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1845

189
Ord. No. 1247-03.
By Council Member Rybka (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Old World Foods, Inc. to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the purchase of
machinery and equipment associated with the relocation of Old World
Foods to 3545 East 76th Street, and
all other associated costs to redevelop the property located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into contract with Old
World Foods, Inc. to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the purchase of
machinery and equipment associated with the relocation of Old World
Foods to 3545 East 76th Street, and
all other associated costs to redevelop the property located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 1247-03-A.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract shall not exceed Fifty
Thousand
Dollars
($50,000),
and
shall be paid from Fund No. 17 SF
008, which funds are appropriated
for this purpose, Request No. 103705.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the Summary contained in
the file referenced above in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
security instrument shall be prepared and approved by the Director
of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
contract and other documents that
are appropriate to complete the
transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

190
Ord. No. 1248-03.
By Council Member Lewis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Cleveland Housing Network to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
environmental,
architectural,
and
engineering studies of real property
formerly known as the Richmond
Brothers building located on East
55th Street, and all other associated
costs to redevelop the property,
located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Cleveland Housing Network to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the
environmental,
architectural,
and engineering studies of real
property formerly known as the
Richmond Brothers building located
on East 55th Street, and all other
associated costs to redevelop the
property, located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of the
grant shall be according to the
terms set forth in the summary contained in File No. 1248-03-A.
Section 3. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed One Hundred
and
Nine
Thousand
Dollars
($109,000), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 652, which funds are
appropriated for this purpose, Request No. 103708.
Section 4. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
grant agreement and other documents that are appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1249-03.
By
Council
Members
Jackson,
Britt, Lewis, Scott and Conwell (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 148-02,
passed January 28, 2002, relating to
a contract with Famicos Foundation
to develop a labor force initiative
program in the Cleveland Empowerment Zone.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 148-02, passed January
28, 2002, is amended to read as follows:

The City Record
Section 2. That the costs of said
contracts shall not exceed $150,000
and shall be paid from Fund No. 18
SF 008.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 148-02, passed January 28,
2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1250-03.
By Council Member Jones (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, the third whereas clause,
Section 2, and Section 3 of Ordinance
No. 378-03, passed March 10, 2003,
relating
to
an
Enterprise
Zone
Agreement with Gebauer Company.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title, the third
whereas clause, Section 2, and Section 3 of Ordinance No. 378-03,
passed March 10, 2003, are amended
to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Gebauer Company, to provide for a ten year seventy-five percent tax abatement for
certain tangible personal property
and real property as an incentive to
assist with the company’s development of a new manufacturing and
distribution facility at the Ashland
Oil property located at East 146th
Street and Velma Avenue in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, Gebauer company (the
“Enterprise”) has proposed to develop a new manufacturing and distribution facility at the Ashland Oil
property located at East 146th Street
and Velma Avenue in the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone; and
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a ten year seventyfive percent (75%) tax abatement
for certain tangible personal property and real property as an incentive to assist with the company’s
development of a new manufacturing and distribution facility at the
Ashland Oil property located at East
146th Street and Velma Avenue in
the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone;
the abatement shall be subject to
annual review of the Tax Incentive
Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 378-03-B.
These terms shall not be amended,
nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferable to any
entity without the prior legislative

1846

July 23, 2003
authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 2. That the title, the third
whereas clause, Section 2, and Section 3 of Ordinance No. 378-03,
passed March 10, 2003, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1251-03.
By Council Member Britt (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
loan from the Cuyahoga County
Brownfield Redevelopment Fund to
partially finance the acquisition,
construction,
and
environmental
remediation of property located at
2188 Overlook Road; authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
to
purchase
the
property;
authorizing the Director to enter
into a contract with Overlook Ventures, LLC to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the acquisition, construction,
and environmental remediation of
the property located at 2188 Overlook Road and all other associated
costs to redevelop the property; and
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to convey
the property to Overlook Ventures,
LLC.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a loan
from the Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund in an
amount not to exceed $1,000,000 to
partially finance the acquisition,
construction
and
environmental
remediation of property located at
2188 Overlook Road.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a loan agreement
with Cuyahoga County for the loan
described above, which loan agreement shall contain the terms set
forth in File No. 1251-03-A, and shall
contain any additional terms that
the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The Director of Economic Development is further authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the loan agreement,
and the loan funds are appropriated
for the purposes contained in the
loan agreement.
Section 3. That on execution of the
loan agreement, the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
repay the loan funds to the Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund under the terms and con-

July 23, 2003
ditions of the loan agreement, from
the fund or funds designated for
that purpose and appropriated for
that use.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following described
property located at 2188 Overlook
Road in order to perform the environmental remediation:
2188 and 2200 Overlook Road
Permanent Parcel Nos. 121-07-014,
015, 016 and 017
Parcel No. 1:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, known as being part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Number
Four Hundred and Four (404) and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the Southwesterly
corner of Sublot Number One Hundred and Seventeen in the Euclid
Heights
Allotment
by
John
H.
Brown, et al., of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Numbers 404, 405 etc.,
recorded in Volume 19, Page 2 to 13,
both inclusive, Cuyahoga County
Records of Maps;
Thence North Fifty One degrees
(51°) West, Three Hundred and
Eighty Eight and Seventy Three
Hundredths (388.73) feet;
Thence North Thirty Nine degrees,
nine minutes (39° 9') East, One
Hundred and Forty Two and Thirty
Seven Hundredths (142.37) feet, to
the Southeasterly line of Edge Hill
Road;
Thence Northerly along said line
of Edge Hill Road, One Hundred
and Thirty One and Six Hundredths
(131.06) feet;
Thence South Fifty Two degrees,
Forty Two minutes (52° 42') East,
One Hundred Seventy Eight and
Eighteen Hundredths (178.18) feet,
to the Westerly line of the Overlook
Road;
Thence Southerly along said line
of the Overlook Road, Three Hundred and One and Twenty-Six Hundredths (301.26) feet;
Thence South Seventy Four degrees, Forty One minutes (74° 41')
West, One Hundred and Forty Nine
and
Ninety
Seven
Hundredths
(149.97) feet, to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways, being
the same property conveyed to the
grantor
herein
by
the
Euclid
Heights Company by deed dated
January 25, 1897, recorded in Volume 659, Page 338, Cuyahoga County Records.
Parcel No. 2:
Known as a part of Original Hundred Acre Lot No. 404 now of the
City of Cleveland:
Beginning at a stone at the
Northwesterly corner of John Sherwin’s property which is also the
Southwest corner of Nellie E. Hinds’
property;
Thence South 52° 20' East 389 feet
to a stone;
Thence South 82° 21' West, 14028/100 feet to a stone;
Thence North 52° 20' West 29027/100 feet to a stone;
Thence North 37° 55' East 100 feet
to the place of beginning, being a
part of Lot No. 1 of James W. Lee’s

The City Record
proposed Subdivision, as per survey
made by Geo. Cully, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways. Being the property conveyed to the grantor herein by John
Sherwin, by deed dated May 20, 1907,
recorded in Volume 1356, Page 119120 Cuyahoga County Records.
Parcel No. 3:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
404, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Southeasterly
line of Edge Hill Road at the most
Westerly corner of land conveyed to
Louise Pope Johnson, by deed dated
September 24, 1904, and recorded in
Volume 1144, Page 515 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence Southwesterly along said
Southeasterly line of Edge Hill
Road to the most Northerly corner
of land conveyed to Nellie E. Hinds,
by deed dated January 25, 1897, and
recorded in Volume 659, Page 338 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southeasterly along the
Northeasterly line of land so conveyed to Nellie E. Hinds, about 17818/100 feet to the Westerly line of
Overlook Road;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line of Overlook Road, to the
most Southerly corner of land conveyed to Louise Pope Johnson as
aforesaid;
Thence Northwesterly along the
Southwesterly line of land so conveyed to Louise Pope Johnson, about
141-72/100 feet to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Parcel No. 4:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original 100 Acre Lot Number 404,
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Northwesterly
line of Overlook Road, S.E. 60 feet
wide, at its intersection with the
Northwesterly prolongation of the
Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 13
in the Euclid Heights Allotment
recorded in Volume 36 of Maps,
Page
2
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence Northwesterly along the
said Northwesterly prolongation of
the Northeasterly line of said Sublot
No. 13, 113.09 feet to the Southeasterly line of Edgehill Road, S.E., 60
feet wide;
Thence Southwesterly along the
Southeasterly line of Edgehill Road,
S.E., 111.37 feet to its intersection
with the Northwesterly prolongation
of the Southwesterly line of said
Sublot No. 13;
Thence Southeasterly along the
said Northwesterly prolongation of
the Southwesterly line of Sublot No.
13, 141.72 feet to the Northwesterly
line of Overlook Road, S.E.;
Thence Northeasterly along the
Northwesterly
line
of
Overlook
Road, S.E. 105.42 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Parcel No.
Situated
County of
Ohio, and

5
in the City of Cleveland,
Cuyahoga and State of
known as being part of

1847

191
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
404 and bounded and described as
follows:
Commencing at a point on the
Northwesterly line of Overlook Road
determined by projecting Northwesterly, the Southwesterly line of land
conveyed to Mary L. Johnson by
deed dated March 30, 1898, and
recorded in Volume 705, Page 290 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Northwesterly on said projected line to Edgehill Road, being
a distance of 88.09 feet;
Thence Southwesterly along the
Southwesterly line of Edgehill Road
a distance of 143.30 feet;
Thence Southeasterly on a line
which is a projection Northwesterly
of the Northeasterly line of land conveyed to Louise Pope Johnson by
deed dated August 7, 1903, and
recorded in Volume 1566, Page 576
of Cuyahoga County Records, to the
Northwesterly
line
of
Overlook
Road, being a distance of 113.09 feet;
Thence Northeasterly along the
Northwesterly line of Overlook Road
a distance of 129.59 feet back to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Parcel No. 6:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
404 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Southeasterly
line of Edgehill Road, S.E., at the
most Northerly corner of land conveyed to Gertrude Rust Chandler by
Deed dated June 12, 1907, and
recorded in Volume 1134, Page 68 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Northeasterly along said
Southeasterly line of Edgehill Road
S.E., 112-23/100 feet to the most
Westerly corner of land conveyed to
The Land and Fund Company by
deed dated May 26, 1915, and recorded in Volume 1699, Page 80 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southeasterly along the
Southwesterly line of land so conveyed to The Land and Fund Company, 70-79/100 feet to the Northwesterly line of Overlook Road S.E.;
Thence Southwesterly along said
Northwesterly line of Overlook Road
S.E., 104-66/100 feet to the Northeasterly line of land conveyed to
Gertrude Rust Chandler, as aforesaid;
Thence Northwesterly along the
Northeasterly line of land conveyed
to Gertrude Rust Chandler, as aforesaid, 88-09/100 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a loan agreement
with Overlook Ventures, LLC to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition, construction, and environmental remediation of the property
located at 2188 Overlook Road, and
all other associated costs to redevelop the property located in Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 6. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the summary contained
file referenced above.
Section 7. That the Director of
Economic Development is autho-

192
rized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the summary contained in
the file referenced above in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
security instrument shall be prepared and approved by the Director
of Law.
Section 8. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 9. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 10. That the Director of
Law is authorized to prepare the
loan agreement and other documents that are appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 11. That the Director of
Economic Development may enter
into and execute a project agreement for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Overlook Ventures LLC, for the acquisition, disposition and private redevelopment
for the property described above.
Section 12. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
property described above to Overlook Ventures, LLC at a price to be
determined by the Board of Control,
taking into account all restrictions,
reversionary interests and similar
encumbrances placed by the City of
Cleveland
in
the
deed
of
conveyance.
Section 13. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain such necessary provisions,
including
any
restrictive
reversionary interests as may be
specified by the Board of Control or
Director of Law, which shall protect
the parties as their respective interests require and shall specifically
contain a provision against the erection of any advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 14. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized
to execute on behalf of the City of
Cleveland all necessary documents
and agreements to acquire, remediate, and convey the property and to
employ and pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers,
environmental audits and environmental remediation, and all other
costs necessary for the acquisition
and remediation of the property.
Section 15. That the costs for the
loan to Overlook Ventures, LLC,
acquisition, construction, and environmental
property
remediation
shall be paid from the fund or funds
which are credited the proceeds of
the Cuyahoga County Brownfield
Redevelopment Fund loan accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 16. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency mea-

The City Record
sure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1252-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 171.62 and 171.621 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1395-02, passed July 17, 2002,
relating to benefits for part-time
employees of City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 171.62 and
171.621 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1395-02, passed
July 17, 2002, are hereby amended to
read, respectively, as follows:
Section 171.62 Benefits for Executive Assistants – Council Members
(a) All Executive Assistants for
Council Members who are chosen by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
pursuant to Section 31 of the Charter of the City and are employed
part-time shall be entitled to the
benefits described in Sections 171.32,
171.33 and 171.60 of these Codified
Ordinances.
(b) All Executive Assistants for
Council Members who are chosen by
the Council of the City of Cleveland
pursuant to Section 31 of the Charter of the City and are employed
part-time shall be entitled to the
benefits described in Sections 171.28,
171.30 (b) and 171.31 of these Codified Ordinances at the rate of eighty
percent (80%) of the benefit provided to full-time employees in each
of these Sections of the Codified
Ordinances.
(c) All Executive Assistants for
Council Members who are chosen
by the Council of the City of Cleveland pursuant to Section 31 of the
Charter
of
the
City
and
are
employed part-time may be entitled
to the benefit described in Section
171.30 (a).
(d) For purposes of this section,
a “part-time employee” is one who
works a minimum of thirty-two (32)
hours per week and less than forty
(40) hours per week.
Section 171.621 Benefits for Council Employees
(a) All Council Employees who
are chosen by the Council of the
City pursuant to Section 31 of the
Charter of the City and who are
employed part-time shall be entitled
to the benefits described in Sections
171.32, 171.33 and 171.60 of these Codified Ordinances.
(b) All Council Employees who
are chosen by the Council of the
City pursuant to Section 31 of the

1848

July 23, 2003
Charter of the City and who are
employed part-time shall be entitled
to the benefits described in Sections
171.28, 171.30 (b) and 171.31 of these
Codified Ordinances at the rate of
eighty percent (80%) of the benefit
provided to full-time employees in
each of these Sections of the Codified Ordinances.
(c) All Council Employees who
are chosen by the Council of the
City pursuant to Section 31 of the
Charter of the City and who are
employed part-time may be entitled
to the benefit described in Section
171.30 (a).
(d) For purposes of this section,
a “part-time employee” is one who
works a minimum of thirty-two (32)
hours per week and less than forty
(40) hours per week.
Section 2. That existing Sections
171.62 and 171.621 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 139502, passed July 17, 2002, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1253-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into contract with City Architecture
for professional services necessary
to design improvements to Council
Member
offices
and
to
design
improvements to the HVAC system
in City Council offices.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to enter into
contract with City Architecture for
professional services necessary to
design
improvements
to
Council
Member offices and to design improvements to the HVAC system in
City Council offices on the basis of
City Architecture’s proposal dated
June 9, 2003.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $15,000 and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 01 SF
001, 11 SF 006, and Fund Nos. 20 and
21.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

The City Record

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1254-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase a site
located at 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
for municipal use.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to purchase the following
described property located at 205
W. St. Clair Avenue for municipal
use:
P. P. No. 101-07-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lots 58 and 59,
and part of Broome Court N.W. (now
vacated),
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the centerline of St. Clair Avenue N.W., 99
feet wide, at its intersection with
the centerline of West 3rd Street
(formerly Seneca Street), 99 feet
wide, and from which point an iron
monument found in the centerline of
West 3rd Street bears South 34
degrees 03 minutes 42 seconds East,
0.10 feet;
Thence North 55 degrees 56 minutes 37 seconds East along the centerline of St. Clair Avenue, 355.58
feet to a nail set at its intersection
with the centerline of West 2nd
Place (formerly Court Place), 16.5
feet wide and variable;
Thence South 34 degrees 03 minutes 04 seconds East along the
centerline of West 2nd Place, 49.50
feet to its intersection with the
southeasterly line of St. Clair Avenue;
Thence South 55 degrees 56 minutes 37 seconds West along the
southeasterly line of St. Clair Avenue, 8.25 feet to its intersection with
the southwesterly line of West 2nd
Place, and the principal place of
beginning
of
the
parcel
herein
described, and from which point a

193

drill hole set bears North 34 degrees
03 minutes 04 seconds West, 1.00
foot;
Thence South 34 degrees 03 minutes 04 seconds East along the,
southwesterly line of West 2nd
Place, 173.59 feet to a nail set at its
intersection with the centerline of
vacated Broome Court;
Thence South 55 degrees 53 minutes 12 seconds West along the center line of vacated Broome Court
and along a northwesterly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to 55 Public LLC by deed recorded as A.F.N.
199908041003 of Cuyahoga County
Records, 147.80 feet to its intersection with a northeasterly line of
said land so conveyed;
Thence North 34 degrees 03 minutes 23 seconds West along said
northeasterly line of said land conveyed to 55 Public LLC, 173.74 feet
to a drill hole set at its intersection
with the southeasterly line of St.
Clair Avenue;
Thence North 55 degrees 56 minutes 37 seconds East along the
southeasterly
line
of
St.
Clair
Avenue, 147.82 feet to the principal
place of beginning and containing
25,670 square feet or 0.5893 acres of
land according to the survey by
Donald G. Bohning & Associates,
Inc. last dated October 2000.
The courses used in this description are referenced to an assumed
meridian and are used to indicate
angles only.
An easement appurtenant to the
fee parcel for the establishment of
a common driveway and passageway
and
for
the
uninterrupted
access, transmission and enjoyment
of light, air and unobstructed view
as set forth in the easement filed for
record January 30, 1956 in Volume
8490, Page 385 of Cuyahoga County
Records and described as follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lots 58 and 59,
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the southwesterly line of West 2nd Place, 16.5
feet wide, at its intersection with
the northwesterly line of Broome
Court N.W., 16.5 feet wide, (now
vacated); Thence South 34 degrees
03 minutes 04 seconds East along
the southwesterly line of West 2nd
Place, 8.25 feet to its intersection
with the centerline of Broome Court,
now vacated;

Thence South 55 degrees 53 minutes 12 seconds West along the centerline of Broome Court, now vacated, 147.80 feet to its intersection
with the southwesterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to First Union
Real Estate Equity and Mortgage
Investments by deed recorded in
Volume 98-01915, Page 30 of the Official Records of Cuyahoga County;
Thence North 34 degrees 03 minutes 23 seconds West along the
southwesterly line of said land conveyed to First Union Real Estate
Equity and Mortgage Investments,
8.25 feet to its intersection with the
northwesterly line of Broome Court,
now vacated;
Thence North 55 degrees 53 minutes 12 seconds East along the
northwesterly line of Broome Court,
now vacated, 147.81 feet to the
place of beginning according to the
survey by Donald G. Bohning &
Associates, Inc., dated November,
1994, and updated through May 27,
1999.
The courses used in this description are referenced to an assumed
meridian and are used to indicate
angles only.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to execute on
behalf of the City of Cleveland all
necessary documents to acquire the
property and to employ and pay all
fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for the property shall not
exceed its fair market value.
Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of the property shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 300, 20 SF 310,
20 SF 381, 20 SF 371, 20 SF 362, 20
SF 351, 20 SF 340, 20 SF 331, 20 SF
320 and the proceeds from the sale
of 2003 general obligation bonds
issued for this purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1255-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 986-03, passed June 10, 2003, relating to moral claims.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 986-03, passed June 10, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Claimant

Claim No.

Amount

Division

Fund

Patricia Cangelosi-Williams

11165

$4,318.10

Park Maintenance

01-701205-672000
01-701205-672000

William C. Beverly, III

11307

212.93

Park Maintenance

Mary Hughey

11410

25.00

Park Maintenance

01-020100-672000

Hattie M. Brown

11472

790.00

Park Maintenance

01-701205-672000

Karl F. Morris

11512

28.00

Park Maintenance

01-701205-672000

Brenda Glass

11474

140.00

Park Maintenance

62 SF 001

(Cemeteries)
Ethel Minters

11485

3,725.00

Park Maintenance

62 SF 001

(Cemeteries)
Ronald Perrott

11491

475.00

Park Maintenance
(Cemeteries)

1849

62 SF 001

The City Record

194
David Henderson

11507

2,086.50

July 23, 2003
Park Maintenance

62 SF 001

(Cemeteries)
Earlene E. McCurdy

11569

582.17

Park Maintenance

62 SF 001

(Cemeteries)
Rubin Jones

11365

495.00

Park Maintenance

01-701204-672000

(Urban Forestry)
Eunous Spencer

11466

250.00

Park Maintenance

01-701204-672000

(Urban Forestry)
Gary A. Jones

11475

250.00

Park Maintenance

01-701204-672000

(Urban Forestry)
Lovie Finch

11479

3,518.00

Park Maintenance

01-701204-672000

(Urban Forestry)
Anna Farley

11499

500.00

Park Maintenance

01-701204-672000

(Urban Forestry)
Janice Oliver

11570

500.00

Park Maintenance

01-701204-672000

(Urban Forestry)
Kathy Thomas

11227

269.00

Municipal Clerk

01-011601-672000

of Courts
Michael Dean-El

11437

500.00

Fire

01-600302-672000

Scott Plate

11529

500.00

Fire

01-600302-672000

Curtis Love

11534

312.73

Fire

01-600302-672000

Myrtell Turner

11538

300.00

Fire

01-600302-672000

Shelia Jenkin

11190

100.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Lawrence Piorkowski

11404

528.90

Police

01-600202-672000

Ray Lipford

11463

80.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Clara Gathright

11473

164.00

Police

01-600202-672000

William Hester

11478

250.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Alverta McRae

11500

163.50

Police

01-600202-672000

Terron Owens

11540

35.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Tim Hruby

11541

1,600.00

Police

01-600202-672000

Theresa Reed

11470

40.00

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Julia M. Asberry

11501

21.99

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Kenya R. Gray

11504

20.30

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Peter Pyros

11528

31.26

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Elizabeth Daniels-Horton

11530

20.00

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000

Ella M. Smedley

11559

21.99

Waste Collection

01-400303-672000
54 SF 001

Debra A. Mason

11400

659.95

Water Pollution Control

Kevin Thomas

11419

1,000.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

James G. McPhillips

11446

1,475.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Darnell Parker

11456

2,000.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

John Sygula

11464

315.56

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Mark Wolf

11487

2,000.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Michael J. Nugent

11502

500.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001
54 SF 001

Alan Beno

11503

37.67

Water Pollution Control

Paulette M. Baglyos

11510

157.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Patricia A. Larson

11515

327.71

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Edith Hopkins

11522

753.10

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Larry Martin

11524

1,500.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Frank D. McGuire

11525

2,000.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Dan Zemnik

11526

439.24

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Reggie Hughes

11532

1,600.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Steve Lenart

11539

640.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Stephanie Calloway

11551

1,870.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Sandra M. Robinson

11555

2,000.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Michelle Gacom

11556

500.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Antonio Tomasi

11560

2,000.00

Water Pollution Control

54 SF 001

Section 2. That existing Section 1 of Ordinance No. 986-03, passed June 10, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1850

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1256-03.
By Council Member Coats (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to authorize registration with the Midwest
Independent Transmission System
Operator, Inc. for the purpose of purchasing various transmission services, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities.
Whereas, the Division of Cleveland Public Power requires access
over the transmission lines of neighboring utilities to import its power
purchases from various power suppliers, and
Whereas, federal law has required
various neighboring utilities to combine their systems to form regional
transmission organizations, including the Midwest Independent Transmission
System
Operator,
Inc.
(MISO), and
Whereas, the Division of Cleveland Public Power is required to
register with MISO to continue
receiving transmission across the
systems of neighboring utilities, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into an agreement or agreements,
and
any
amendments
approved by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, with the
Midwest Independent Transmission
System Operator, Inc. (MISO) to register the Division of Cleveland Public Power as a MISO Market Participant and to authorize the Director,
or his designees, to purchase from
MISO
various
transmission
and
other services that are necessary to
enable Cleveland Public Power to
receive and transmit power between
Cleveland Public Power and its suppliers.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance shall make electronic fund
transfers as needed according to
MISO’s requirements.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

The City Record
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1257-03.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of equipment,
furniture and computer software
and
hardware;
authorizing
the
Director of Public Service to acquire
one or more software licenses for
fleet management, for the various
divisions of the Department of Public Service; and authorizing the
Director to employ one or more
firms or consultants, computer software developers, or vendors necessary to install and implement the
system and to provide training, technical support, and maintenance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
period of one year of the necessary
items of various types of equipment,
supplies, furniture, and computer
hardware and software, in the estimated sum of $472,795, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than one year may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

195
plies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
acquire by contract or contracts
with one or more consultants, computer software developers, or vendors or one or more firms of consultants, computer software developers, or vendors for the purpose of
supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland to
acquire one or more licenses for
fleet management software, including implementation, training, technical support services and maintenance, for a period of one year, for
the Department of Public Service.
The selection of the consultants,
software developers, or vendors for
the licenses and services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Public
Service from lists of qualified consultants, software developers, or
vendors available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Service for the purpose
of compiling the lists. The contract
or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Service and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against Fund No. 11 SF 006
and the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase,
which
purchase,
together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 112520)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1258-03.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to make alterations and modifications in
Contract No. 56954 for improvements to the Justice Center garage and plaza with Panzica Construction Co., for
the Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to make the following alterations and modifications
in Contract No. 56954 with Panzica Construction Co. for improvements to the Justice Center garage and plaza,
for the Department of Public Service:
ADDITIONS
Scope of Work:
1. Demo existing pavers and prep site for new security booth. Re-set pavers around security booth after installation.
2. Provide material and labor to install 6’ x 8’ security booth per attached plans and specifications.

1851

The City Record

196

July 23, 2003

3. Provide material and labor to install granite around bottom 3’ of security booth to match adjacent granite
planters.
4. Core concrete structural deck and tie in downspout into existing sanitary line on P-1 level.
5. Provide material and labor to install all electrical and security systems as detailed in Bulletin #5 issued
July 18, 2001 by Osborn Engineering. Cord reels and receptacles per value engineering proposal.
6. Repairs to insulation at P-1 ceiling.
7. Paint new conduit.
Description
Security Booth

$ 17,720.00

Granite for pavers and security booth, caulking
Bulletin #5 – Item #1
Bulletin #5 – Item #2
Downspout Tie-in

$ 10,000.00
$ 63,375.00
$ 41,855.00
$ 1,000.00

Repairs to Spray Insulation
Touch-up Paint
Contingency Work

$ 5,000.00
$ 2,500.00
$ 20,000.00

Supervision
Profit
Overhead

$ 3,000.00
$ 11,650.00
$ 13,320.00

Subsidiary Additions

$194,420.00

Original Contract Amount

$7,270,000.00

Subsidiary Additions
REVISED CONTRACT AMOUNT

+ 194,420.00
$7,464,420.00

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director of Public Service, countersigned by the Mayor,
and consented to by the surety on the contract, which price to be paid has been agreed on in writing and signed
by the Director of Public Service and the Contractor. This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the
original contract in the sum of $194,420.00, payable from Fund No. 01-600200-693000.
Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1259-03.
By Council Member Coats (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
rehabilitation and renovation of
the Collinwood Community Center;
determining the method of making
the public improvement of constructing
the
improvement;
and
authorizing the director to enter
into one or more public improvement contracts for the making of
the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to design the rehabilitation and renovation of the
Collinwood Community Center (the
“Improvement”).

The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Service from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Service for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved
by the Director of Public Service,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement described in
Section 1 of this ordinance by one
or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts for
the making of the public improvement with the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
for a gross price for the Improvement, provided, however, that each

1852

separate trade and each distinct
component part of the Improvement
may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price. On
request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule
of unit prices, including profit and
overhead, for all items constituting
units of the improvement.
Section 4. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 300, 20 SF 310, 20
SF 320, 20 SF 331, 20 SF 340, 20 SF
351, 20 SF 362, 20 SF 371, 20 SF 381,
and from the fund or funds which
are credited the proceeds of the sale
of 2003 public facility bonds which
are authorized for this purpose,
Request No. 131063.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1260-03.
By Council Member Reed (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1105-02,
passed June 17, 2002, relating to the
Director of Public Safety enter into
a direct contract with the Cuyahoga
Regional Information System for
law enforcement services relating to
the implementation of a mobile data
computer pilot project in the fourth
district.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1105-02, passed June 17,
2002, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 13 SF 934 and
13 SF 960, Request No. 131606.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 1105-02, passed
June 17, 2002, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1261-03.
By Council Member Reed (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Sagem Morpho, Inc. for the purchase
of maintenance for AFIS software
and hardware, for the Department of
Public Safety, for a period of one
year, with two one-year options to
renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council has
determined that the within commodities are non-competitive and
cannot be secured from any source
other than Sagem Morpho, Inc.
Therefore the Director of Public
Safety is authorized to make one or
more written contracts with Sagem
Morpho, Inc. on the basis of its proposal dated March 19, 2003 for maintenance for AFIS software and hardware, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
for a gross price, for the Department
of Public Safety, to renew for additional one-year terms, and cancelable on thirty days written notice
by the director.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 11 SF 006,
Request No. 112685.

The City Record
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1262-03.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1 and 6a of
Ordinance No. 725-02, passed August
14, 2002, relating to the creation of
a pilot program for the public
improvement to repair and replace
unsafe or dangerous sidewalks.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Sections 1 and 6a of Ordinance No. 72502, passed August 14, 2002, are
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
create a pilot program for the public
improvement
to
repair
and
replace unsafe or dangerous sidewalks from 2002 through 2004.
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to create a pilot program through December 31, 2004 where sidewalks which
are designated by the Department of
Public Service as being in an unsafe
or dangerous condition may be
repaired after receipt by the City of
voluntary payment of fifty percent
(50%) of the estimated shared costs
of repair. Shared costs shall include,
but not be limited to, any cost
incurred by the City or its contractor, such as the cost of paving or
repairing, adjustment of castings,
reseeding lawns, or grinding tree
roots, except that shared costs shall
not include costs incurred in removing a full tree.
Section 6a. That this pilot program shall terminate on December
31, 2004, except that any work for
which
shared
costs
have
been
received from a resident prior to the
termination date remaining unperformed on the termination date shall
be performed during the next calendar year.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Sections 1 and 6a of Ordinance
No. 725-02, passed August 14, 2002,
are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1853

197
Ord. No. 1263-03.
By Council Member Gordon (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to apply to the
District One Public Works Integrating Committee for state funding for the Treadway Creek Greenway Restoration Project; authorizing the Mayor to accept a grant
from the Ohio Public Works Commission for the project; authorizing
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties to employ one or
more professional consultants to
design the construction of a trail
path connector from tow path trail
to Harmody Park; determining the
method
of
making
the
public
improvement of the construction;
authorizing the director to enter
into one or more public improvement contracts for the making of
the improvement; and authorizing
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies to acquire for public purposes real property that is necessary to implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is
authorized to apply to the District
One Public Works Integrating Committee for state funding of the
infrastructure capital improvement
known as the Treadway Creek
Greenway Restoration Project.
Section 2. That the Mayor is
authorized to accept a grant in the
amount of $745,316, from the Ohio
Public Works Commission, acting by
and through its Director, to finance
the capital improvement of implementing the Treadway Creek Greenway Restoration Project; that the
Mayor is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for the
grant.
Section 3. That the application for
the grant, File No. 1263-03-A made a
part as if fully rewritten, including
the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds
in the approximate sum of $60,000,
from Fund No. 10 SF 166 and to
accept $10,000 from the Ohio & Erie
Canal
Association
to
be
used
towards implementing the project, is
approved in all respects.
Section 4. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
design the construction of a trail
path connector from tow path trail
to Harmody Park (the “Improvement”).
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by

198
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 5. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement described in
Section 1 of this ordinance by one
or more contracts duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the Improvement.
Section 6. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or
more contracts for the making of
the public improvement with the
lowest
responsible
bidder
after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for
the
Improvement,
provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part
of the Improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and
each, or any combination, of the
trades or components may be the
subject of a separate contract on a
unit basis.
Section 7. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized to acquire for public purposes
such real property as described in
the application which is necessary
to implement the Project. The consideration to be paid for such properties shall not exceed its appraised
value.
Section 8. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to execute on behalf of
the City all documents necessary to
acquire such property and to employ
and pay all fees for title companies,
surveys, escrows, appraiser, and all
other costs necessary for the acquisition
of
property
necessary
to
implement the Project.
Section 9. That the costs of the
property acquisition, the public improvement contract, and professional services shall be paid from the
fund or funds which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1264-03.
By Council Member Johnson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to employ one
or more professional consultants to
provide for the design of improving
various types of recreation facilities;
determining the method of making
the public improvement of constructing
the
recreation
facility
improvements; authorizing the director to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvements; and authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of furniture,
equipment, and supplies necessary
to make the improvements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
design
improvements
to
various
types of recreation facilities (the
“Improvement”).
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement described in
this ordinance by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a gross price for
the construction, rehabilitation, renovation, replacement, or otherwise
improving certain City-owned recreation facilities, and including all
site
improvements
and
appurtenances necessary and incidental to
the Improvement, excluding parks
and playgrounds.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
Improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
Improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or

1854

July 23, 2003
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
On request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit
and overhead, for all items constituting units of the Improvement
Section 4. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it is determined to make the
public improvement described in
this ordinance by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for
the construction, rehabilitation, renovation, replacement, or otherwise
improving certain City-owned parks
and playgrounds, including all site
improvements
and
appurtenances
necessary and incidental to the
Improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct
component
part
of
the
Improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract on a unit basis.
Section 6. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to make one or more
written requirement contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for the period of
one year of the necessary items of
furniture, equipment, and supplies
necessary to make the Improvement,
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Divisions of Recreation and Research, Planning and
Development. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than one year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 11 SF 006, 20 SF 331, 20
SF 340, 20 SF 351, 20 SF 362, 20 SF
371, 20 SF 381, 20 SF 330, 20 SF 343,
20 SF 354, 20 SF 361, 20 SF 370, 20
SF 382, 20 SF 377, and from the proper appropriation accounts and the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 136627)
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

July 23, 2003
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1265-03.
By Council Member Johnson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
Lease Agreement with the City of
East Cleveland for park purposes,
for a period not to exceed twenty
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized to enter into a Lease Agreement with the City of East Cleveland for park purposes on property
belonging to the City of Cleveland
but located in the City of East
Cleveland and known as Permanent
Parcel No. 672-02-114. The Lease
Agreement shall be at no cost to the
City of Cleveland. The term shall
commence on the date of execution

The City Record

199

of the Agreement and, unless sooner terminated, shall not exceed
twenty years.
Section 2. That the Lease Agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law, and shall contain any
provision necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1266-03.
By Council Members Britt and
Gordon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant Western
Reserve Area Agency for the 2003
Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging — Caregivers Program; and
authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contracts necessary to implement the
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Aging is authorized to apply for and
accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $45,000 and any other
funds that may become available
during the grant term, from the
Western Reserve Area Agency to
conduct the 2003 Western Reserve
Area Agency on Aging — Caregivers
Program, that the Director of Aging
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1266-03-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
is
approved
in
all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts necessary to implement the
program as described in the file.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1267-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 43 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1099-03, passed June 10, 2003, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 43 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1099-03,
passed June 10, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 43. Hourly Rate – Building & Construction Trades Council
Compensation for all persons employed by the hour in any of the following classifications shall be fixed by
the appointing authority within the limits established in the following schedule for each classification:
Effective
Date
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

Asbestos Worker.........................................................................
Boiler Maker.................................................................................
Bricklayer......................................................................................
Bricklayer Foreman...................................................................
Carpenter........................................................................................
Carpenter Foreman.....................................................................
Carpenter Apprentice.................................................................
Cement Finisher..........................................................................
Cement Finisher Foreman.......................................................
Electrical Worker.......................................................................
Electrical Worker Foreman....................................................
Glazier.............................................................................................
Ironworker.....................................................................................
Ironworker Foreman..................................................................
Painter.............................................................................................
Painter – Apprentice.................................................................
Painter Foreman.........................................................................
Pipefitter (Welder)....................................................................
Pipefitter Foreman.....................................................................

1855

5/1/03
7/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
8/1/03
8/1/03
6/1/03
5/1/03
6/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03

Minimum

Maximum

$32.22
$33.88
$28.06
$28.86
$27.76
$28.76
$14.45
$28.13
$28.93
$33.87
$34.67
$27.86
$32.37
$34.17
$27.26
$14.46
$28.06
$33.52
$34.32

$40.28
$42.35
$35.08
$36.08
$34.70
$35.95
$18.06
$35.16
$36.16
$42.34
$43.34
$34.82
$40.46
$42.71
$34.08
$18.06
$35.08
$41.90
$42.90

200

The City Record

20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Plasterer.........................................................................................
Plasterer Foreman......................................................................
Plumber (Welder).......................................................................
Plumber Foreman.......................................................................
Roofer..............................................................................................
Sheet Metal Worker...................................................................
Sheet Metal Worker Foreman................................................

July 23, 2003
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03
5/1/03

$27.86
$28.66
$33.53
$34.33
$28.42
$31.50
$32.30

$34.82
$35.82
$41.91
$42.91
$35.53
$39.37
$40.37

Section 2. That Section 43 of Ordinance No. 384-03, passed March 10, 2003, as amended by Ordinance No. 1099-03,
passed June 10, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1268-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on East 46th
Street to Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 103-24-036,
as more fully described below, to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance is more fully described as
follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-036
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 73 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre
Lot Nos. 71 and 72 as shown by the
recorded plat of said Allotment in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga County Records and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 46th Street, (formerly Kennard
Street), at a point distance Northerly measured along said Easterly
line 237.55 feet from the intersection
of the North line of Central Avenue,
S.E., with the Easterly line of East
46th Street and distance Southerly
measured along said Easterly line,
55 feet from the Northerly line of

said Sublot No. 73; thence Northerly
along said Easterly line of East
46th Street, 55 feet to a point; thence
Easterly and along said Northerly
line of said Sublot No. 73, 150.03 feet
to a point in the Easterly or rear
line of said Sublot No. 73; thence
Southerly parallel with the Easterly
line of East 46th Street and along
the Easterly or rear line of said
Sublot No. 73, 55 feet to a stake;
thence Westerly parallel with the
second course of this description,
150.02 feet to the place of beginning,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1856

Ord. No. 1269-03.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement
with
the
Cleveland
Municipal School District to use portions of Collinwood High School for
summer recreational activities.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland desires to have more
summer recreational programs in
Ward 10; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Municipal
School District has agreed to allow
the City of Cleveland to use portions
of Collinwood High School to conduct summer recreational activities;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into an agreement with the Cleveland Municipal
School District to use portions of
Collinwood High School for summer
recreational activities.
Section 2. That the agreement
shall prepared by the Director of
Law, shall contain a provision that
the City shall be responsible for all
claims,
losses,
costs,
damages,
expenses and liabilities for or from
the loss of life or damage or injury
to any person or property resulting
from the City’s use of Collinwood
High School, and shall contain additional terms and conditions as are
necessary to protect the interest of
the City.
Section 3. That any costs associated
with
such
agreement
and
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with summer recreational activities
for 2003 shall be paid from Fund No.
01 SF 001, org. #7004-00 and/or any
other funds appropriated and available for recreation purposes.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earlier period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1270-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with St. Clair Superior
Neighborhood Development Association for the Flower Power Program
for the public purpose of beautification of green space in the City of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development to enter
into a grant agreement with St.
Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Association for the Flower
Power Program for the public purpose of beautification of green
space in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $10,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1271-03.
By Council Member Gordon.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 829-03, passed May 12, 2003 as it
pertains to authorizing the Director
of City Planning to enter into a
grant agreement with Old Brooklyn
Community Development Corporation for the Neighborhood Trail Connector Project through the use of
Ward 15 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 829-03,
passed May 12, 2003 are hereby
amended to reads as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation for
the Neighborhood Trail Connector
Project in order to carry out the
public purpose of conducting a planning study through the use of Ward
15 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agree-

The City Record
ment with Old Brooklyn Community
Development Corporation for the
Neighborhood Trail Connector Project for the public purpose of conducting a planning study through
the use of Ward 15 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the title and Section
1 of Ordinance No. 829-03, passed May
12, 2003 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1272-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc. for the New Home Construction Grant Program through
the use of Ward 5 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Burten, Bell, Carr Development
Inc. for the New Home Construction
Grant Program for the public purpose of providing financial grants to
City of Cleveland residents for new
home construction through the use
of Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $130,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1273-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development
to
enter
into
an
agreement with Famicos Foundation
for a Home Rehabilitation Program
through the use of Ward 4 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

1857

201
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Famicos Foundation for a Home Rehabilitation Program for the public purpose of providing housing rehabilitation assistance to Cleveland residents
through the use of Ward 4 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $80,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1274-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Alternative Agency, Inc.
for Hough Community Re-Entry Program through the use of Ward 7
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Alternative Agency, Inc. for
Hough Community Re-Entry Program for the public purpose of providing
job
skills
training
and
employment assistance to ex-offenders residing in the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $73,676 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

202
Ord. No. 1275-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 395-03, passed March 10, 2003 as
amended by Ordinance No. 830-03,
passed May 12, 2003, and as amended by Ordinance No. 918-03, passed
May 19, 2003 as it relates to the
Hough Service Provider Program
through the Use of Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title of Ordinance No. 395-03, passed March 10,
2003 as amended by Ordinance No.
830-03, passed May 12, 2003, and as
amended by Ordinance No. 918-03,
passed May 19, 2003 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development
to
enter
into
an
agreement with with Joseph Veneziano and Associates for the Hough
Service Provider Program through
the use of Ward 7 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 395-03, passed March 10,
2003 as amended by Ordinance No.
830-03, passed May 12, 2003, and as
amended by Ordinance No. 918-03,
passed May 19, 2003 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Joseph Veneziano and Associates for Hough Service Provider Program for the public purpose of providing neighborhood citizen services, safety education, crime prevention and social service agency
referral programs to City of Cleveland residents through the use of
Ward 7 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 3. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 395-03,
passed March 10, 2003 as amended
by Ordinance No. 830-03, passed May
12, 2003, and as amended by Ordinance No. 918-03, passed May 19, 2003
are hereby repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1276-03.
By Council Members Polensek,
O’Malley, Westbrook and Brady.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with the Cleveland Restoration
Society for the Heritage Home loan
Program through the use of Ward
11, 16, 18, and 19 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
effective from November 1, 2002 to
October 31, 2003 with the Cleveland
Restoration Society for the Heritage
Home loan Program for the public
purpose of promoting restoration
and preservation of historic homes
in the City of Cleveland through the
use of Wards 11, 16, 18 and 19 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $60,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1277-03.
By Council Member Jones.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
mobile peddling in Ward 1. (Michael
and Rafus Clark).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business district, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 1; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
each
persons
named
below
to
engage in peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 1: Michael
and Rafus Clark.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3. That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the mayor; otherwise, it

1858

July 23, 2003
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1281-03.
By Council Members Coats and
Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the Franchise Agreement to require
the payment from Adelphia, of the
minority cable channel “subscriber
fee” to be directed to The Cleveland
Foundation for administration and
distribution by the Cleveland Minority Arts & Education Fund.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1422-86, passed on July 17, 1986,
the City entered a cable television
franchise
agreement
with
North
Coast Cable Limited, City Contract
No. 37286 (the “Franchise Agreement’); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 305-94, passed February 28, 1994,
the City approved the request to
transfer the cable franchise from
North Coast Cable Limited to Cablevision of Cleveland, L.P.; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1729-2000, passed October 16,
2000, the City conditionally approved
the request to transfer the cable
franchise from Cablevision of Cleveland, L.P. to Adelphia Cleveland
LLC (“Adelphia”) and approved the
extension of the franchise; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 1729-2000, monies from
a permanent endowment are held by
The Cleveland Foundation for the
purpose of funding operations and
programs of a minority cable channel, known as “Cleveland Television
Network” (“WCTN”); and
Whereas, also pursuant to Section
1 of Ordinance No. 1729-2000, within
30 days of the conclusion of the
transfer, Adelphia was required to
begin paying WCTN $0.04 per subscriber per month for each subscriber in any of Adelphia’s franchise areas receiving WCTN’s cablecast (the “subscriber fee”); and
Whereas, it is the desire and
intent of the City and The Cleveland
Foundation to continue programming on the minority cable channel;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Franchise
Agreement is hereby amended to
require that the payment of the $0.04
subscriber fee referenced in paragraph D of Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1729-2000, passed October 16,
2000, be directed to The Cleveland
Foundation, for administration by
the Cleveland Minority Arts and
Education Fund. All references in
Ordinance No. 1729-2000 to WCTN
shall be construed to refer to the
City’s minority cable channel or its
funding administrator as appropriate.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

July 23, 2003
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1352-03.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 1 of Ordinance No. 238601, passed December 3, 2001 as
amended by Ordinance No. 1894-02,
passed September 23, 2002 as it
relates to the Neighborhood Priorities Program for Community Enrichment through the use of Ward 18
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2386-01, passed December
3, 2001 as amended by Ordinance No.
1894-02, passed September 23, 2002
are hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
effective from January 1, 2002 to
September 30, 2003 with Neighborhood Progress, Inc for the Neighborhood Priorities Program for Community Enrichment for the public
purpose of sustaining Cleveland
neighborhoods through the use of
Ward
18
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2386-01, passed December
3, 2001 as amended by Ordinance No.
1894-02, passed September 23, 2002
are hereby amended repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1360-03.
By Council Members Britt and
Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the
Greater
Cleveland
Regional
Transit Authority (RTA) to stretch
banners at Shaker Blvd. at Shaker
Square & Adelbert Avenue and Mayfield Road in Little Italy for the
period from August 4, 2003 to September 4, 2003, inclusive, publicizing
the new University Circle/Heights
Area Community Circulator.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,

The City Record
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority
(RTA) to install, maintain and
remove banners on Shaker Blvd. at
Shaker Square & Adelbert Avenue
and Mayfield Road in Little Italy
signage is visible at the north
entrance, for a period from August
4, 2003 to September 4, 2003, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1361-03.
By Council Member Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into contract with Acme Express
Inc. for professional services necessary to create, design, implement,
and maintain a legislative tracking
system for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to enter into
contract with Acme Express Inc. for
professional services necessary to
create, design, implement, and maintain a legislative tracking system
for Cleveland City Council, including training City Council staff on
the system, on the basis of Acme
Express Inc.’s proposal dated July
15, 2003.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $100,000
and shall be paid from Fund Nos. 01
SF 001 and 11 SF 006. The contract
shall
be
initially
certified
for
$30,000, the cost of Phase I services.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1859

203
Ord. No. 1362-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
mobile peddling in Ward 4. (Malachy Nzekwe).
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.07 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights
of way outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business district, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 4; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
each
persons
named
below
to
engage in peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 4: Malachy
Nzekwe.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1363-03.
By Council Member Jones.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Ward 1 Festival Committee to
stretch banners at various intersections in Ward 1 for the period from
July 25, 2003 to August 21, 2003,
inclusive, publicizing the Lee Harvard/Seville Community Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Ward 1 Festival Committee to install, maintain
and
remove
banners
on
Miles
Avenue and East 146th Street (north
side of Miles Avenue CEI 811200 and
south side of Miles Avenue CEI
500094), Harvard Ave. at East 147th
Street (north side of Harvard Ave-

204
nue CEI 2772 and south side of Harvard Avenue CEI 537531), Lee Road
at Harvard Avenue (east side of Lee
Road CPP E12-321 and west side of
Lee Road CEI 814249), Harvard
Avenue at Feiner Drive (north side
of Harvard Avenue CEI 129706 and
south side of Harvard Avenue CEI
344954), Lee Road at Sunny Glenn
Avenue (east side of Lee Road CEI
54411 and west side of Lee Road),
Miles Avenue at East 174th Street
(south side of Miles Avenue CEI
301676 and north side of Miles
Avenue), for a period from July 25,
2003 to August 21, 2003, inclusive.
Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1364-03.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 976-03,
passed June 10, 2003, authorizing the
Director of Community Development
to enter into or amend contracts
with various agencies to provide
housing, commercial, industrial and
real estate development activities.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 976-03,
passed June 10, 2003, authorized the
Director of Community Development
to enter into or amend contracts
with various agencies to provide
housing, commercial, industrial and
real estate development activities;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 976-03
does not provide authority for the
Director of Community Development
to enter into contract with a forprofit
or
non-profit
organization
serving as a fiscal agent for the
Consortium for Economic and Community Development; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 976-03, passed June 10,
2003, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into or amend contracts with
various agencies to provide housing,
commercial, industrial and real estate
development activities.

The City Record
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with a forprofit
or
non-profit
organization
serving as the fiscal agent for the
Consortium for Economic and Community
Development
to
provide
housing, commercial, industrial and
real estate development activities.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 976-03, passed June
10, 2003, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1365-03.
By Council Member Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the MetroHealth Systems to stretch
banners at Townsend and Keyes for
the period from July 31, 2003 to
August 24, 2003, inclusive, publicizing the MetroHealth Center for Community Health’s “Around the World
Health Fair”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the MetroHealth
Systems to install, maintain and
remove banners on Townsend and
Keyes in the vicinity of MetroHealth’s Clement Center where the
MetroHealth signage is visible at
the north entrance, for a period from
July 31, 2003 to August 24, 2003,
inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

1860

July 23, 2003
Ord. No. 1366-03.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
St.
Clair/Superior
Neighborhood
Development Association to stretch
banners at the intersections of East
53rd Street and St. Clair Avenue,
East
55th
Street
and
Superior
Avenue, East 70th and St. Clair and
East 71st and St. Clair Avenue, for
the period from August 7, 2003 to
August 31, 2003, inclusive, publicizing the St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby
authorized and directed to issue a
permit
to
the St. Clair/Superior
Neighborhood Development Association to install, maintain and remove
banners at the intersections of East
53rd Street and St. Clair Avenue,
East 55th Street and Superior Avenue, East 70th and St. Clair and East
71st and St. Clair for the period from
August 7, 2003 to August 31, 2003, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1367-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
KidsHealth 2020 to stretch banners
at the intersection of East 137th &
Kinsman for the period from July
11, 2003 to August 10, 2003, inclusive,
publicizing
the
KidsHealth
2020
Summer Fair Series.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Depart-

July 23, 2003
ment of Public Service is hereby
authorized and directed to issue, a
permit to KidsHealth 2020 to install,
maintain and remove banners on
East 137th & Kinsman, for a period
from July 11, 2003, to August 10, 2003,
inclusive.
Said
banner
shall
be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1368-03.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1037-03,
passed June 2, 2003, authorizing and
directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to the African
American Family Heritage Day Picnic to stretch, maintain, and remove
one (1) banner at the intersection of
Kinsman Road and Martin Luther
King.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1037-03, passed June 2,
2003, is hereby amended to read as
follows.
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to the
African American Family Heritage
Day Picnic to stretch, maintain, and
remove one (1) banner on the intersection of Kinsman Road and Martin Luther King Boulevard, for their
annual picnic, for the period of July
5, 2003 to August 5, 2003, inclusive.
Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission,
of the owner of any pole must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 1037-03, passed
June 2, 2003, is hereby repealed.

The City Record
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1369-03.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Sky Bank Triathlon
on July 20, 2003, sponsored by Pacific Sports.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the
holding
of
the
Sky
Bank
Triathlon,
sponsored
by
Pacific
Sports, on July 20, 2003, with the
Triathlon beginning at Voinovich
Park; the swim course will be in the
waters of the Northcoast Harbor
area, then will traverse by bike on
the Shoreway from East 9th Street
to West Boulevard, the run will then
take place on downtown streets
throughout Cleveland, utilizing the
Shoreway, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit shall
further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and, be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1370-03.
By Council Members Zone and
Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 13th Annual Dr. John
Carey Memorial AIDS Walk on September 21, 2003, sponsored by Kropf
Public Relations, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

1861

205
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 13th Annual Dr.
John Carey Memorial AIDS Walk,
sponsored by Kropf Public Relations, Inc., on September 21, 2003,
with the Walk Route beginning at
Edgewater Park. The 5K Route will
take participants west on Edgewater Drive to West 117th Street; south
on
West
117th
Street,
east
on
Clifton; north on West Boulevard;
back to Edgewater Park, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1371-03.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the St. Clair-Superior Neighborhood
Development Association to hang
six (6) banners on St. Clair and
Superior Ave. between E. 53rd & E.
71st Sts. using Cleveland Public
Power utility poles (by separate permission) publicizing their special
event for the period of August 7,
2003 to August 31, 2003, inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to St. Clair-Superior Neighborhood Development Association, 6408 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to install, maintain
and remove six (6) banners to be
hung on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate permission)
for the period of August 7, 2003 to
August 31, 2003, inclusive, publicizing their special event, and which
banners are to be placed at the following pole locations and on the following pole numbers: St. Clair Ave.
– 6th Pole E. of E 53rd (N), MT 1935; 5th pole E. of E. 53rd (S), MT 186; Superior Ave. – 4th pole E. of E.
55th (N), KT 11-73; 4th pole E. of E.
55, KT 11-4; St. Clair Ave. – 1st pole

206
E. of E. 70th (N); 1st pole E. of E.
70th (N), No Tag; 2nd pole W. of E.
71st (S), No Tag; and which pole and
banner locations shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be placed must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners, and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1372-03.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
God’s House of Prayer and Deliverance to hang three (3) banners on
Woodland Ave. at E. 110 & E. 111
Sts., & Woodhill Rd. at Kennedy &
Cumberland using Cleveland Public
Power utility poles (by separate permission) publicizing their special
event for the period of June 9, 2003
to August 4, 2003, inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to God’s House
of Prayer and Deliverance, 2654
Woodhill
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
to
install,
maintain
and
remove three (3) banners to be hung
on Cleveland Public Power utility
poles (by separate permission) for
the period of June 9, 2003 to August
4 2003, inclusive, publicizing their
special event, and which banners
are to be placed at the following
pole locations and on the following
pole numbers: Woodland Avenue —
between E. 110th St. and E. 111th St.
(S), E4-30; 2nd Pole W. of Woodhill
(N),
E4-18-2;
Woodhill
Road
—
between Kennedy and Cumberland,
E4-18A-5; and which pole and banner
locations shall be approved by the
Director of Public Service in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be placed must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banners, and said banners shall be

The City Record
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

Ord. No. 1375-03.
By Council Member Jackson (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into an agreement with Louis Stokes
for services to resolve Empowerment Zone audit issues.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Louis Stokes for
services to resolve Empowerment
Zone audit issues, payable from
Fund No. 01-999800-632000.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 16, 2003.
Effective July 23, 2003.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, July 14, 2003
1:00 P.M.
Special Hearing on Proposed New
Convention Center Complex Committee: Present: Jackson, Britt, Cimperman,
Coats,
Conwell,
Jones,
Lewis,
Polensek,
Reed,
Rybka,
Westbrook, Zone.
Wednesday, July 16, 2003
9:00 A.M.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee:
Present:
Cimperman,
Chair;
Rybka, Vice Chair; Conwell, Lewis,
Scott, Westbrook. Authorized Ab sence: O’Malley.
Joint Committee Meetings
City Planning Committee, Legislation Committee & Finance Committee:
Present in City Planning: Cimperman, Chair; Rybka, Vice Chair; Conwell,
Lewis,
Scott,
Westbrook.
Authorized Absence: O’Malley.
Present in Legislation: Scott, Vice
Chair; Dolan, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: White,
Chair; Gordon.
Present
in
Finance:
Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair: Brady,
Britt, Coats, Reed, Scott, Westbrook.
Authorized Absence: Gordon, O’Malley, White.

1862

July 23, 2003
Public Service Committee, City
Planning
Committee,
Legislation
Committee, Public Utilities Committee & Finance Committee:
Present in Public Service: Sweeney, Chair; Jones, Vice Chair; Brady,
Cimperman, Johnson, Polensek, Zone.
Authorized Absence: O’Malley, White.
Present in City Planning: Cimperman, Chair; Rybka, Vice Chair; Conwell, Lewis, Scott, Westbrook. Au thorized Absence: O’Malley.
Present in Legislation: Scott, Vice
Chair; Dolan, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: White,
Chair; Gordon.
Present in Public Utilities: Coats,
Chair; Brady, Jones, Polensek, Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone. Authorized
Absence: O’Malley, Vice Chair; Cintron.
Present
in
Finance:
Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Brady,
Britt, Coats, Reed, Scott, Westbrook.
Authorized Absence: Gordon, O’Malley, White.
Community and Economic Development Committee, City Planning
Committee & Finance Committee:
Present
in
CEDC:
Cimperman,
Vice Chair; Coats, Jones, Lewis,
Reed, Scott. Zone. Authorized Ab sence: Gordon, Chair; Cintron.
Present in City Planning: Cimperman, Chair; Rybka, Vice Chair; Conwell,
Lewis,
Scott,
Westbrook.
Authorized Absence: O’Malley.
Present
in
Finance:
Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Brady,
Britt, Coats, Reed, Scott, Westbrook.
Authorized Absence: Gordon, O’Malley, White.
Public Utilities Committee, City
Planning
Committee,
Legislation
Committee & Finance Committee:
Present in Public Utilities: Coats,
Chair;
Brady,
Jones,
Polensek,
Sweeney, Westbrook, Zone. Autho rized Absence: O’Malley, Vice Chair;
Cintron.
Present in City Planning: Cimperman, Chair; Rybka, Vice Chair; Conwell,
Lewis,
Scott,
Westbrook.
Authorized Absence: O’Malley.
Present in Legislation: Scott, Vice
Chair; Dolan, Johnson, Rybka, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: White,
Chair; Gordon.
Present
in
Finance:
Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Brady,
Britt, Coats, Reed, Scott, Westbrook.
Authorized Absence: Gordon, O’Malley, White.
Public Parks, Property and Recreation Committee & Finance Committee:
Present in Public Parks, Property
and Recreation: Johnson, Chair; Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, Rybka, Sweeney. Authorized Absence: White,
Vice Chair.
Present
in
Finance:
Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Brady,
Britt, Coats, Reed, Scott, Westbrook.
Authorized Absence: Gordon, O’Malley, White.
Public
Safety
Committee
&
Finance Committee:
Present in Public Safety: Reed,
Chair; Britt, Vice Chair; Brady, Cimperman, Coats, Conwell, Jones, Zone.
Authorized Absence: White.
Present
in
Finance:
Jackson,
Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair; Brady,
Britt, Coats, Reed, Scott, Westbrook.
Authorized Absence: Gordon, O’Malley, White.

The City Record

July 23, 2003

207

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments
Adelphia (Cable Television)
Franchise Agreement — amend — “subscriber fee” — The Cleveland Foundation — Cleveland
Minority Arts & Education Fund (O 1281-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1858
Aging Department
Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging — Caregivers Program, 2003 — grant — Western
Reserve Area Agency (O 1266-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1724-1855
Agreements
Collinwood High School — summer recreational activities —
District — Parks, Recreation and Properties (O 1269-03)
Euclid Corridor Transportation Project — Greater Cleveland
— Public Service (O 893-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Cleveland Municipal School
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725-1856
Regional Transit Authority
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1756-1798

Annual Reports
Center for Families and Children — 2002 Annual Report — Hope, Dignity & Purpose (F 1394-03) . . . . . . 1660
Appropriations
Memphis Ave., 4103 — intention to appropriate — recreational play field — repeal Res.
No. 573-01 (R 1239-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
On-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment
— various divisions — appropriate ($500,000) — Enterprise Funds (O 1169-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1759-1828
Assessment Equalization Board
Catalpa Rd. — Cleveland Rd. — improvement — assessment equalization board
— objections to estimated assessments (R 1279-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1731-1768
Woodhaven Ave. — W. 98th St. — improvement — assessment equalization board — report
(O 1222-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Woodhaven Ave. — W. 98th St. — W. 110th St. — improvement — assessment equalization
board — objections to estimated assessments (R 1280-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732-1768
Banners
African American Family Heritage Day Picnic — amend Ord. No. 1037-03 (O 1368-03) . . . . . . .
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (RTA) — University Circle/Heights Area Community
Circulator (O 1360-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Health’s “Around the World Health Fair” — MetroHealth Systems (O 1365-03) . .
God’s House of Prayer and Deliverance — special event (O 1372-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
KidsHealth 2020 — KidsHealth 2020 Summer Fair Series (O 1367-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair-Superior Neighborhood Development Association — special event (O 1371-03) . . . . . . .
St. Clair/Superior Neighborhood Development Association — St. Clair Superior
Neighborhood Festival (O 1366-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ward 1 Festival Committee — Lee Harvard/Seville Community Festival (O 1363-03) . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . 1730-1861
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1728-1859
1729-1860
1731-1862
1729-1860
1730-1861

. . . . . . . 1729-1860
. . . . . . . 1728-1859

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Broadway Avenue, 5644, (Ward 12) — Atlas Savings LP, owner — appeal rescheduled to
8/13/03 on 7/16/03 (Doc. A-82-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766
Clinton Avenue, 3107-09, (Ward 13) — 32 Clinton LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 7/16/03 (Doc. A-79-03) . . . . . . . . . 1766
East 131st Street, 170, (Ward 10) — ACME Realty LLC, owner — appeal rescheduled to
7/30/03 on 7/16/03 (Doc. A-55-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766
East 156th Street, 429, (Ward 11) — Rayshaun Rogers, owner — appeal adopted on 7/16/03
(Doc. A-48-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766
East 22nd Street, 2021, (Ward 13) — Access Elevator Company, owner — appeal adopted on
7/16/03 (Doc. A-64-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766
Grand Avenue, 6110, (Ward 5) — John & Robert Tankovich, owners — appeal rescheduled to
8/13/03 on 7/16/03 (Doc. A-63-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766
Lakeside Avenue, 2323, (a.k.a. 2203-2337 Lakeside Avenue), (Ward 13) — NCL Development
Company Ltd., owner — extension of time on 7/16/03 (Doc. A-161-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766
Lakeside Avenue, 2343, (a.k.a. 2343-2557 Lakeside Avenue), (Ward 13) — NCL Development
Company Ltd., owner — extension of time on 7/16/03 (Doc. A-163-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766
Lakeside Avenue, 2427, (a.k.a. 2427-2541 Lakeside Avenue), (Ward 13) — NCL Development
Company Ltd., owner — extension of time on 7/16/03 (Doc. A-162-02) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766

1863

The City Record

208

Ridgehill Road, 2032, (Ward 10) — Latwana Williams c/o D-Joy Builders, owner —
appeal postponed to 8/13/03 on 7/16/03 (Doc. A-60-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scoville Avenue and East 66th Street, 6040, 5958, 6156, 6376, 6460, 6546 and 2516, (Ward 5) —
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority (CMHA), owner — no action on 7/16/03
(Doc. A-72-03 to 78-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 4404, (Ward 13) — The Durable Plating Co., owner — appeal adopted on
7/16/03 (Doc. A-59-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 32nd Street, 1513-17, (Ward 13) — 32 Clinton LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 7/16/03
(Doc. A-80-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

July 23, 2003
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1766

Board of Control — Baldwin Water Works Plant
Chemical / Admistration Project — approve subcontractors — Contract #61131 per BOC Res.
174-03 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 415-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1761
Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
NASA facilities demolition, relocation and construction (Runway 5L-23R) — approve
subcontractor — Contract #61473 per BOC Res. 310-03 — Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 419-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1762
Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Utility pole replacement — contract per Ord. 232-03 to Par Electrical Contractors, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 418-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1762
Board of Control — Community Development Department
Quincy Avenue, 7505 (Ward 5) — PPN 118-34-049 — to Green Grove Missionary Baptist Church
per Ord. 555-03 (BOC Res. 427-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Union Avenue, 12020, 12032 (Ward 3) — PPN 137-02-004/005 — to United Apostolic Church of
Jesus Christ per Ord. 505-03 (BOC Res. 426-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
West 20th Street, 2466 (Ward 14) — PPN 004-06-066 — to Donna M. Brown (BOC Res. 428-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Board of Control — Convention Center and Stadium Division
Peerless pumps replacement — contract per Ord. 1981-02 to APO Holdings, Inc. — Dept. of
Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 425-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Memphis Avenue rehabilitation — contract per Ord. 2368-92, 1454-97, 1402-2000, 906-02 to
Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 421-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1762
Sidewalks, curbs, driveway aprons, curb ramps and tree lawn repair, replacement and
construction (Wards 16, 18, 19) — contract per Ord. 365-03 to Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 420-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1762
Board of Control — Garrett A. Morgan Water Works Plant
Finished water pumping station project — approve subcontractors — Contract #57952 per BOC
Res. 427-01 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 416-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1761
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Quincy Avenue, 7505 (Ward 5) — PPN 118-34-049 — to Green Grove Missionary Baptist Church
per Ord. 555-03 (BOC Res. 427-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Union Avenue, 12020, 12032 (Ward 3) — PPN 137-02-004/005 — to United Apostolic Church of
Jesus Christ per Ord. 505-03 (BOC Res. 426-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
West 20th Street, 2466 (Ward 14) — PPN 004-06-066 — to Donna M. Brown (BOC Res. 428-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 3)
Union Avenue, 12020, 12032 (Ward 3) — PPN 137-02-004/005 — to United Apostolic Church of
Jesus Christ per Ord. 505-03 (BOC Res. 426-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 5)
Quincy Avenue, 7505 (Ward 5) — PPN 118-34-049 — to Green Grove Missionary Baptist Church
per Ord. 555-03 (BOC Res. 427-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 14)
West 20th Street, 2466 (Ward 14) — PPN 004-06-066 — to Donna M. Brown (BOC Res. 428-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Board of Control — NASA
Facilities demolition, relocation and construction (Runway 5L-23R) — approve
subcontractor — Contract #61473 per BOC Res. 310-03 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 419-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1762

1864

July 23, 2003

The City Record

209

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
East Boulevard fence improvements — contract per Ord. 1605-98 to F. Buddie Contracting,
Ltd. — Division of Research, Planning and Development (BOC Res. 423-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Food items — contract per Ord. 170-03 to Hillcrest Food Service — Division of Recreation
(BOC Res. 424-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Peerless pumps replacement — contract per Ord. 1981-02 to APO Holdings, Inc. — Division
of Convention Center and Stadium (BOC Res. 425-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Board of Control — Personnel and Human Resources Department
Comprehensive workers’ compensation program coordination and operation — amend BOC Res.
345-03 (BOC Res. 429-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1764
Board of Control — Police Division
Voice stress analyzer — per Ord. 2167-02 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 422-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1762
Board of Control — Port Control Department
NASA facilities demolition, relocation and construction (Runway 5L-23R) — approve
subcontractor — Contract #61473 per BOC Res. 310-03 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (BOC Res. 419-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1762
Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Comprehensive workers’ compensation program coordination and operation — amend BOC Res.
345-03 — Dept. of Personnel and Human Resources (BOC Res. 429-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1764
Engineering services — contract per Ord. 2453-02 to Washington Group International, Inc. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 417-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1761
Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Baldwin Water Works Chemical / Admistration Project — approve subcontractors — Contract
#61131 per BOC Res. 174-03 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 415-03) . . . . . .
East Boulevard fence improvements — contract per Ord. 1605-98 to F. Buddie Contracting,
Ltd. — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (BOC Res. 423-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Avenue rehabilitation — contract per Ord. 2368-92, 1454-97, 1402-2000, 906-02 to
Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction, Dept.
of Public Service (BOC Res. 421-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan WaterWorks finished water pumping station project — approve subcontractors —
Contract #57952 per BOC Res. 427-01 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 416-03)
NASA facilities demolition, relocation and construction (Runway 5L-23R) — approve
subcontractor — Contract #61473 per BOC Res. 310-03 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 419-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidewalks, curbs, driveway aprons, curb ramps and tree lawn repair, replacement and
construction (Wards 16, 18, 19) — contract per Ord. 365-03 to Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 420-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . 1761

. . . . . . . 1763

. . . . . . . 1762
. . . . . . . 1761

. . . . . . . 1762

. . . . . . . 1762

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Voice stress analyzer — per Ord. 2167-02 — all bids rejected — Division of Police (BOC Res. 422-03) . . . . . . . . . . . 1762
Board of Control — Public Service Department
Memphis Avenue rehabilitation — contract per Ord. 2368-92, 1454-97, 1402-2000, 906-02 to
Vandra Brothers Construction, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction (BOC Res. 421-03) . . . . . . . . 1762
Sidewalks, curbs, driveway aprons, curb ramps and tree lawn repair, replacement and
construction (Wards 16, 18, 19) — contract per Ord. 365-03 to Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction (BOC Res. 420-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1762
Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Baldwin Water Works Chemical / Admistration Project — approve subcontractors — Contract
#61131 per BOC Res. 174-03 — Division of Water (BOC Res. 415-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engineering services — contract per Ord. 2453-02 to Washington Group International, Inc. —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 417-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan WaterWorks finished water pumping station project — approve subcontractors —
Contract #57952 per BOC Res. 427-01 — Division of Water (BOC Res. 416-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utility pole replacement — contract per Ord. 232-03 to Par Electrical Contractors, Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 418-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1761
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1761
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1761
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1762

Board of Control — Recreation Division
Food items — contract per Ord. 170-03 to Hillcrest Food Service — Dept. of Parks,
Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 424-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763

1865

The City Record

210

July 23, 2003

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Food items — contract per Ord. 170-03 to Hillcrest Food Service — Division of Recreation,
Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 424-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Utility pole replacement — contract per Ord. 232-03 to Par Electrical Contractors, Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 418-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1762
Board of Control — Research, Planning and Development Division
East Boulevard fence improvements — contract per Ord. 1605-98 to F. Buddie Contracting,
Ltd. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 423-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Peerless pumps replacement — contract per Ord. 1981-02 to APO Holdings, Inc. — Division
of Convention Center and Stadium, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (BOC Res. 425-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1763
Board of Control — Water Division
Baldwin Water Works Chemical / Admistration Project — approve subcontractors — Contract
#61131 per BOC Res. 174-03 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 415-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1761
Engineering services — contract per Ord. 2453-02 to Washington Group International, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 417-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1761
Morgan WaterWorks finished water pumping station project — approve subcontractors —
Contract #57952 per BOC Res. 427-01 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 416-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1761
Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Carnegie Avenue, 3866, (Ward 5) — James and Charles Comella, owners, and James Jackson,
tenant — appeal postponed to 8/4/03 on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-152) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chatham Avenue, 2919, (Ward 14) — Christopher Morley, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-158) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 2605, (Ward 13) — TEG Properties, owner c/o Victoria Smith, agent —
appeal postponed to 8/4/03 on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-148). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 139th Street, 4097, (Ward 1) — Bennie Porter, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
7/21/03 (Cal. 03-163) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 147th Street, 3341, (Ward 4) — Ronald Drakeford, owner — appeal heard on
7/21/03 (Cal. 03-171) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 49th Street, 1406-1410, (Ward 13) — Ohio Tech College, owners, c/o John Palcisko,
agent — appeal granted and adopted on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-82) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 63rd Street, 2371, (Ward 5) — Progressive Baptist Church, owner, c/o Carlton Caffey,
agent — appeal heard on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-164) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 63rd Street, 2373, (Ward 5) — Progressive Baptist Church, owner, c/o Carlton Caffey,
agent — appeal heard on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-165) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Helena Avenue, 10504, (Ward 8) — Presbytery of the Western Reserve, owner, and Gale
Thomas, tenant — appeal granted and adopted on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-51) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Literary Road, 525, (Ward 13) — Sutton Builders, owner, c/o Keith Sutton, agent — appeal
heard on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-170) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Avenue, 8901, (Ward 18) — Great Lakes Telephone, LLC, owner, c/o Mark Higgins,
agent — appeal heard on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-166) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminal Avenue, 14627, (Ward 20) — Thomas Keating, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-160) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 38th Street, 3192, (Ward 14) — Peter Hauk, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-147) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2164, (Ward 13) — Sutton Builders, owner, c/o Keith Sutton, agent —
appeal withdrawn on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-168) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2172, (Ward 13) — Sutton Builders, owner, c/o Keith Sutton, agent —
appeal heard on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-169) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2174, (Ward 13) — Sutton Builders, owner, c/o Keith Sutton, agent —
appeal heard on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-167) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 7th Street, 2087, (Ward 13) — Sutton Builders, owner c/o Keith Sutton, agent —
appeal postponed to 8/25/03 on 7/21/03 (Cal. 03-150). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Birch Lane, 1133, (Ward 15) — Patricia Arnst, owner — appeal to be heard on 8/4/03
(Cal. 03-184) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brooklyn Avenue, 4022, (Ward 16) — Donald Cornelius, owner — appeal to be heard on 8/4/03
(Cal. 03-183) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 77th Street, 1148, (Ward 7) — Willie & Charlotte Powells, owner — appeal to be heard
on 8/4/03 (Cal. 03-179) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 3845, (Ward 2) — John Papouras, owner c/o Willie Jackson, tenant —
appeal to be heard on 8/4/03 (Cal. 03-180) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
San Diego Avenue, 14104, (Ward 21) — Alfred Corona, owner — appeal to be heard on 8/4/03
(Cal. 03-182) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 5806, (Ward 7) — Sam Qassem, owner, c/o, Yacub Imead, agent — appeal to
be heard on 8/4/03 (Cal. 03-181) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2154, (Ward 13) — Michael McBride, owner, c/o, Niagra Homes Ltd., agent —
appeal to be heard on 8/4/03 (Cal. 03-178) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1866

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1764
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1764
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1765
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1764
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1764

July 23, 2003

The City Record

211

Bonds
Airport System Revenue Bonds — $215,000,000 — issuance and sale — airport system —
improve & acquire property (O 1156-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1821
Building and structures housing — improving — issuance and sale of bonds — $17,050,000
(O 1203-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Municipal parks and recreation facilities — improve — issuance and sale of bonds
— $10,330,000 (O 1205-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1674
Municipal street system — improve — issuance and sale of bonds — $27,385,000 (O 1204-03) . . . . . . . . . . . 1668
Streets and municipal properties — public improvements — issuance and sale of bonds —
$7,235,000 (O 1206-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1681
Building and Housing Department
Computer hardware maintenance — Hewlett-Packard Co. — contracts — Community
Development and Building Housing (O 1176-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1833
Cable Television
Editing systems and training — Office of Cable TV (O 1213-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1691
City of Cleveland Bids
Cab / chassis with 65’ material handling aerial device — Department of Public Service Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1262-02 — bid due August 22, 2003
(advertised 7/23/2003 and 7/30/2003). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elevator and escalator maintenance and service — Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties — Division of Convention Center and Stadium — per Ord. 1016-03 — bid due
August 7, 2003 (advertised 7/23/2003 and 7/30/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paper and envelopes — Department of Finance — Division of Printing and Reproduction — per
Ord. 988-03 — bid due August 6, 2003 (advertised 7/23/2003 and 7/30/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Plumbing equipment and supplies — Department of Finance — per Ord. 425-03 — bid due
August 8, 2003 (advertised 7/16/2003 and 7/23/2003) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Traffic signal components — Department of Public Service — Division of Traffic
Engineering — per Ord. 371-03 — bid due August 7, 2003
(advertised 7/23/2003 and 7/30/2003). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1767

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1767
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1767
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1767

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1767

City Council
Acme Express Inc. — contract — legislative tracking system (O 1361-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1728-1859
City Council Renovations Project — Contract No. 60510 — statement of work acceptance
(F 1424-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Council Member Business Expense Reimbursement Policies and Procedures (F 1387-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
Council Member offices — HVAC system — design improvements — City Architecture
(O 1253-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1717-1848
Office Renovations — Subsidiary Agreement — Dep. of Public Service (F 1385-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
Part-time employees — amend Sections 171.62 and 171.621 (O 1252-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1716-1848
Part-time employees of City Council — benefits — amend Section 171.62 and 171.621 (O 1252-03) . . . . . 1716-1848
City Hall
Carpeting (Phase 5) Project — Contract No. 58676 — statement of work acceptance (F 1423-03) . . . . . . . . 1660
City Planning Commission
Clark Metro Business Revitalization District — establish (O 1237-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
E. 61st St. & St. Clair Ave. (northwest corner) — change — Two-Family Residential
District and a “B” Area District (O 1353-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
East 156th Street/Waterloo Business Revitalization District — expand (O 1238-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
Ernst Schellentranger House — Cleveland Landmark — designate (O 1358-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
Lakeshore Blvd. (south) — between E. 171 St. & E. 174 St. — change the zoning —
One-Family Residential Use District and to an “A” Area District (O 820-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1797
Memorial School — Cleveland landmark — designate (O 1354-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
Old Brooklyn Community Dev. Corp. — Neighborhood Trail Connector Project — Ward
15 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1271-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725-1857
Shawnee Ave. (south), near Neff Rd & E. 185 St. — change the zoning — Local Retail Use
District (O 818-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1794
St. Clair Ave. (south) — between E. 115th & E. 117th Sts. — change the zoning —
General Retail Business District (O 1022-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1819
St. Clair Ave. (south) — between E. 165 St. & E. 166 St. — change the zoning —
Semi-Industry Use District (O 819-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1796
Clerk of Council
Acme Express Inc. — contract — legislative tracking system (O 1361-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1728-1859
Council Member offices — HVAC system — design improvements — City Architecture (O 1253-03). . . . . 1717-1848
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Runway 6L-24R — Contract No. 53666 — Michael Baker and Associates (O 1215-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1691

1867

The City Record

212

July 23, 2003

Cleveland Housing Network
Richmond Brothers building — E. 55th St. — economic development assistance (O 1248-03) . . . . . . . . 1714-1846
Cleveland Municipal School District
Collinwood High School — summer recreational
Recreation and Properties (O 1269-03) . . . . . .
Patrick Henry Track Field — change the name
(R 1278-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

activities — agreement — Parks,
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725-1856
— Robert Eugene “Bump” Taylor Track Field
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1731-1767

Cleveland Public Power
Outdoor residential lighting and energy efficient programs (O 1154-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Snow removal services — various locations (O 1152-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Substation equipment — batteries, switchgear, transformers and circuit breakers —
maintain, repair, and replace (O 999-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transmission services — Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (O
Water, sewer and gas lines damaged — by pole replacement (O 1151-03) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1820
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1820
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1818
1256-03) . . . . . . 1720-1851
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1820

Codified Ordinances
Applying and accepting federal and state grants — new Sec. 139.16 (O 1220-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692
Armed security guards — repeal the various sections — comprise Chapter 670 (O 1235-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
City Council part-time employees — amend Sects. 171.62 and 171.621 (O 1252-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1716-1848
Contracts for the Division of Water Pollution Control — new Sects. 129.29, 129.291, and
129.292 (O 996-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1817
General Industry Districts — amend Sec. 345.04 — rock crushing — new Sec. 325.571
(O 1183-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1839
Impounding bicycles — amend Sec. 405.09 (O 1236-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
Part-time employees of City Council — benefits — amend Sec. 171.62 and
171.621 (O 1252-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1716-1848
Professional services to conduct audits of vendors, tenants and concessionaires — new
Sec. 139.17 (O 1221-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Public art — enact Sects. 186.01, 186.02, 186.03, 186.04, 186.05, and 186.06 (O 1356-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
Street and sidewalk obstruction permits and street opening permits — new Sec. 411.011
— amend Sects. 503.01, 503.99 and 507.06 — repeal Sec. 503.02 (O 1170-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1831
Collinwood Community Services Center
Public improvement — Public Service (O 1259-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1721-1852
Communications
Benjamin Rose — Strategic Plan, 2003-2006 transitions (F 1395-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Center for Families and Children — 2002 Annual Report — Hope, Dignity & Purpose
(F 1394-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Certified MBEs and FBEs, Reporting Period: Second Quarter, 2003 — Office of Equal
Opportunity (F 1390-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City Council Office Renovations — Subsidiary Agreement — Dep. of Public Service
(F 1385-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Foodbank — Food for Thought, June, 2003, Issue 30 (F 1388-03) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Lakefront Bikeway Improvements Phase II — Contract No. 59537
— Subsidiary Agreement (F 1398-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Shares — St. Clair Superior Spotlight, Vol. 3, Issue 6 (F 1378-03) . . . . . . . . . .
Corporate College West — Corporate College is Open for Business, June 2003 Issue
(F 1393-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Council Member Business Expense Reimbursement Policies and Procedures (F 1387-03)
Denials of Certification — Second Quarter, 2003 — Office of Equal Opportunity
(F 1391-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 68th & East 69th Street Sewer Project — Subsidiary Agreements — Dep. of
Public Utilities (F 1377-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation — Thank you letter for
support (F 1389-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fifth Third Bank — 2002 Community Investment Annual Report (F 1397-03) . . . . . . . . . .
Glenville Homes III L.P. — re: Thank you letter for Council’s Support (F 1383-03) . . . .
Hazeldell Elderly L.P. — Thank you letter for Council’s Support (F 1381-03) . . . . . . . . . .
Mexico, Consulado de — Thank you letter for Council’s support (F 1380-03) . . . . . . . . . . .
Quarterly Deletions, Second Quarter, 2003 — Office of Equal Opportunity (F 1392-03) . .
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum — Liner Notes, Spring/Summer 2003 Issue
(F 1396-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solon, City of — Res. No. 2003-154 re: Solon Board of Education & HB 95
(F 1384-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tobacco Control Coalition — Clean Indoor Air Laws Are Good for
Communities (F 1379-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Miles Homes IV Limited Partnership — Thank you letter for Council’s Support
(F 1382-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Voinovich, Senator George V. — receipt letter of Res. Nos. 194-03
& 199-03 (F 1386-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1868

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1660
1660
1659
1659
1659
1660

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659

July 23, 2003

The City Record

213

Community Development
African American Music Association, Inc. — You Won’t Foul Out with an Alhambra Rd., 813
— purchase property — convey to Northeast Shore Development Corp. (O 1357-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
Alternative Agency, Inc. — Hough Community Re-Entry Program — Ward 7 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1274-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1857
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc. — New Home Construction Grant Program — Ward
5 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1272-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1857
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home loan Program — Ward 11, 16, 18, and 19
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1276-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1858
Computer hardware maintenance — Hewlett-Packard Co. — contracts — Community
Development and Building Housing (O 1176-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1833
E. 117th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Ali Development Corporation (O 690-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1793
E. 36th St., 2065 & Prospect Ave., 3606 — Land Reutilization Program — Halle, Inc.
(O 502-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1791
E. 46th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
(O 1268-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725-1856
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation — Land Reutilization Program — scattered sites
(Ward 10) (O 1231-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
Famicos Foundation — Home Rehabilitation Program — Ward 4 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 1273-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1857
Green Rd. — Land Reutilization Program — Tony H. Smith, Sr. (O 1230-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Hough Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Bruce A. Jones (O 931-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1817
Hough Service Provider Program — amend Ord. No. 395-03 — Ward 7 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1275-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1858
Housing Trust Fund Program — various housing development entities — contracts
(O 1174-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1832
Housing, commercial, industrial and real estate development activities — various
agencies — amend Ord. No. 976-03 (O 1364-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729-1860
Jennings Freeway — I-176 — purchase properties — expand homeowner’s yards
(O 1240-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1709-1841
Maximum Independent Living — contracts — seminars and materials on housing
accessibility — people with disabilities (O 1175-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1833
Memphis Ave., 4103 — intention to appropriate — recreational play field — repeal Res.
No. 573-01 (R 1239-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
Neighborhood Progress, Inc — Neighborhood Dialogue Program — Ward 18 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1352-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1859
Park Lane, 10510 — purchase property — future redevelopment (O 1359-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Association — Flower Power Program — Ward
13 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1270-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725-1857
Superior Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Ohio Sauce Corporation (O 783-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1794
W. 45th St., 2087 — Land Reutilization Program — Patricia Zayas & Edwin Zayas
(O 1229-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging — Caregivers Program, 2003 — grant — Western
Reserve Area Agency (O 1266-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1724-1855
Condolences
Boulton, Amanda (R 1445-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cash Moore, Olivia (R 1439-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Celebrezze, Anthony J., Jr. (R 1429-03) . . . . .
Cook, Charles (R 1448-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
DiBello, Joseph (R 1451-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fluellen, Fred Henry (R 1437-03). . . . . . . . . . .
Frollo, Joe (R 1453-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gray, Myrthul (R 1436-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamilton, Lena (R 1430-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harris, Joyce Ann (R 1441-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harris, William A. “Sonny” (R 1446-03) . . . . .
Herbert Bradley, Henry (R 1433-03) . . . . . . . .
Jackson, Maynard H., Jr. (R 1431-03) . . . . . . .
Johnson, Dorothy Mae (R 1442-03) . . . . . . . . . .
Johnson, Evelyn Mae (R 1438-03). . . . . . . . . . .
Jones, Andrew W., Sr. (R 1447-03) . . . . . . . . . .
Payne, Christina (R 1452-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Randall Mitchell, Sarah Ozelma (R 1434-03) .
Rivers Boone, Amelia (R 1432-03) . . . . . . . . . .
Sapatka, Gerald (R 1440-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Smothers, Larry “Coach” (R 1450-03) . . . . . . . .
Spates, Frager (R 1435-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
White, Robert R., Jr. (R 1443-03) . . . . . . . . . . .
Williams, Barbara June (R 1449-03) . . . . . . . .
Woolridge, Dorothy V. (R 1444-03). . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1661
. 1661
. 1660
. 1661
. 1661
. 1660
. 1661
. 1660
. 1660
. 1661
. 1661
. 1660
. 1660
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1660
. 1660
. 1661
. 1661
. 1660
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661

34th Anniversary of LGBT Month (R 1473-03) .
Ancell, Brother Peter (Timothy) (R 1472-03) . .
Bibb, Officer Frank Lee, Jr. (R 1458-03) . . . . . .
Chambers Family Reunion (R 1460-03). . . . . . . .
Coats, Roosevelt (R 1476-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crow, Dr. Jack E. (R 1465-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661

Congratulations

1869

The City Record

214

Evans, Mrs. Ollie Mae (R 1454-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Giovannetti, Jose Antonio (R 1455-03) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hall, Kenwood (R 1464-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harris, Rev. Paige A. (R 1462-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hemann, Judge Patricia A. (R 1463-03) . . . . . . . . . . .
Kirby, Roosevelt (R 1457-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McCall, Valarie J. (R 1466-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minter, Steve A. (R 1475-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minter/Coker Family Reunion (R 1461-03) . . . . . . . .
Moore, Rev. Dr. R. Josef II (R 1459-03) . . . . . . . . . . .
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center (R 1471-03) .
“Rebuilding Day 2003” (R 1470-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ritter, Harry and Kathryn (R 1468-03) . . . . . . . . . . .
Sepulveda Lopez, Santos (R 1456-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Simmons, Earl and Mary Louise (R 1469-03) . . . . . .
Wolstein, Bert (R 1467-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Cemetery (R 1474-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

July 23, 2003
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661

Contracts
Acme Express Inc. — legislative tracking system (O 1361-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1728-1859
Aegis software — New World Systems (O 1226-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
AFIS software and hardware — Sagem Morpho, Inc. — Public Safety (O 1261-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1722-1853
Clean Ohio Assessment Grant — Phase II environmental assessment — LTV Copperweld site
— 12610 Kirby Ave. — 12610 Kirby Avenue LLC (O 1244-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712-1844
Clean Ohio Assessment Grant — Phase II environmental assessment — White Motors facility
— E. 79th St. & St. Clair Ave. — East 79th Street Retail Associates, LLC
(O 1241-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1711-1843
Clean Ohio Revitalization Grant — demolition of the existing structure & remediation —
Cleveland Pneumatic — 3781 E. 77th St. — The General Investment Funds Real Estate
Holding Comp. (O 1243-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712-1844
Computer hardware maintenance — Hewlett-Packard Co. — Community Development and
Building Housing (O 1176-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1833
Contracts for the Division of Water Pollution Control — new Sects. 129.29, 129.291, and
129.292 (O 996-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1817
Housing Trust Fund Program — various housing development entities (O 1174-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1832
Housing, commercial, industrial and real estate development activities — various
agencies — Community Development — amend Ord. No. 976-03 (O 1364-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729-1860
JCDecaux Airport, Inc. (f/k/a Sky Sites, Inc.) — Contract No. 57846 — amendment
— advertising concession (O 1216-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1691
Justice Center garage and plaza — improvements — Contract No. 56954 —
Panzica Construction Co. (O 1258-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1720-1851
lean Ohio Assessment Grant — Phase II environmental assessment — National Screw
& Manufacturing Company — Quincy Business Park — Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corp. (O 1242-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712-1843
Maximum Independent Living — seminars and materials on housing accessibility — people
with disabilities (O 1175-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1833
Northwest Airlines, Inc. — Contract No. 31263 — Continental Airlines, Inc. — Contract
No. 38171 — amendments (O 1214-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1691
Overlook Rd., 2188 — Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund — loan — Overlook
Ventures, LLC — economic development assistance (O 1251-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1715-1846
Overlook Ventures, LLC — historic renovation — First Church of Christ Scientist
building — 2188 Overlook Rd. (O 1245-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713-1844
Runway 6L-24R — Contract No. 53666 — Michael Baker and Associates (O 1215-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1691
Water Pollution Control building — feasibility study, design and make of the improvement
(O 597-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1791
Deeds
Cedar Rd. & Murray Hill Rd. (northwest corner) — Declaratory Judgement voiding Deed
Restrictions (O 1228-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
E. 185th St. (3 properties) — Release of Deed Restrictions — authorizing the Mayor
(O 652-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1793
Economic Development Department
Clean Ohio Assessment Grant — Phase II environmental assessment — LTV Copperweld site
— 12610 Kirby Ave. — 12610 Kirby Avenue LLC (O 1244-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clean Ohio Assessment Grant — Phase II environmental assessment — White Motors facility
— E. 79th St. & St. Clair Ave. — East 79th Street Retail Associates, LLC
(O 1241-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clean Ohio Revitalization Grant — demolition of the existing structure & remediation —
Cleveland Pneumatic — 3781 E. 77th St. — The General Investment Funds Real Estate
Holding Comp. (O 1243-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 185th St. (3 properties) — Release of Deed Restrictions — authorizing the Mayor
(O 652-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 11316 — economic development assistance — amend Ord. 315-03
(O 1180-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gebauer Company — Enterprise Zone Agreement — amend Ord. No. 378-03 (O 1250-03). . . . . . . .
Labor force initiative program — Cleveland Empowerment Zone — amend Ord. No.
148-02 (O 1249-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1870

. . . . . 1712-1844

. . . . . 1711-1843

. . . . . 1712-1844
. . . . . 1755-1793
. . . . . 1760-1833
. . . . . 1714-1846
. . . . . 1714-1846

July 23, 2003

The City Record

215

Lean Ohio Assessment Grant — Phase II environmental assessment — National Screw
& Manufacturing Company — Quincy Business Park — Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corp. (O 1242-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712-1843
Old World Foods, Inc. — economic development assistance — relocation — 1545 E. 76th St.
(O 1247-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713-1845
Overlook Rd., 2188 — Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund — loan — Overlook
Ventures, LLC — economic development assistance (O 1251-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1715-1846
Overlook Rd., 2188 — tax abatement — Enterprise Zone Agreements — Nottingham Spirk Design
Associates, Inc. — Overlook Ventures, LLC (O 1246-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713-1845
Overlook Ventures, LLC — contract — historic renovation — First Church of Christ
Scientist building — 2188 Overlook Rd. (O 1245-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713-1844
Professor Ave., 2507, 2509, 2511 — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Sutton Builders, Inc.
(O 1179-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1833
Puritas Ave., 19609 — new retail facility — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Parkview Town
Center LLC (O 1232-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
Richmond Brothers building — E. 55th St. — economic development assistance — Cleveland
Housing Network (O 1248-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1714-1846
Skill Tool & Die Corporation — Enterprise Zone Agreement No. 48586 (O 1233-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
Taxable Urban Renewal Temporary Refunding Bonds — issuance and sale — refunding
outstanding Taxable Urban Renewal Notes, Series 2002 — paying certain costs
of issuance of said Refunding Bonds (O 1181-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1834
Year 4 Youth Opportunity Program — grant — U.S. Department of Labor (O 1234-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
Emergency Purchases
Structural and Roof Repairs — Lorain Avenue District Service Center — Dep. of Purchases
and Supplies (F 1376-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
Empowerment Zone
Labor force initiative program — Cleveland Empowerment Zone — amend Ord. No.
148-02 (O 1249-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1714-1846
Louise Stokes — agreement — Empowerment Zone audit issues (O 1375-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1731-1862
Enterprise Funds
On-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment
— various divisions — appropriate ($500,000) (O 1169-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1759-1828
Enterprise Zone Agreement
Gebauer Company — amend Ord. No. 378-03 (O 1250-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professor Ave., 2507, 2509, 2511— Sutton Builders, Inc. — Economic
Development (O 1179-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave., 19609 — new retail facility — Parkview Town Center LLC
Skill Tool & Die Corporation — Enterprise Zone Agreement No. 48586 (O

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1714-1846
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1833
(O 1232-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
1233-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703

Euclid Corridor Transportation Project
Agreement — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority — Public Service (O 893-03) . . . . . . . . . . 1756-1798
Famicos Foundation
Home Rehabilitation Program — Ward 4 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1273-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1857
Labor force initiative program — Cleveland Empowerment Zone — amend Ord. No.
148-02 (O 1249-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1714-1846
Fees
Franchise Agreement — amend — “subscriber fee” — The Cleveland Foundation — Cleveland
Minority Arts & Education Fund (O 1281-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1858
Female Business Enterprise
Certified MBEs and FBEs, Reporting Period: Second Quarter, 2003 — Office of Equal
Opportunity (F 1390-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Denials of Certification — Second Quarter, 2003 — Office of Equal Opportunity (F 1391-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Quarterly Deletions, Second Quarter, 2003 — Office of Equal Opportunity (F 1392-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Finance Department
Airport System Revenue Bonds — $215,000,000 — issuance and sale — airport system —
improve & acquire property (O 1156-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1821
Building and structures housing — improving — issuance and sale of bonds — $17,050,000
(O 1203-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Louise Stokes — agreement — Empowerment Zone audit issues (O 1375-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1731-1862
Moral claims — amend Ord. 986-03 (O 1255-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1718-1849
Municipal parks and recreation facilities — improve — issuance and sale of bonds
— $10,330,000 (O 1205-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1674

1871

The City Record

216

July 23, 2003

Municipal street system — improve — issuance and sale of bonds — $27,385,000
(O 1204-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1668
Software licenses — citywide government treasury management system — consultants,
computer software developers, or vendors (O 1208-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Storage of backup media in secure off-site locations — various divisions
(O 1207-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1688
Streets and municipal properties — public improvements — issuance and sale of bonds —
$7,235,000 (O 1206-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1681
Taxable Urban Renewal Temporary Refunding Bonds — issuance and sale — refunding
outstanding Taxable Urban Renewal Notes, Series 2002 — paying certain costs
of issuance of said Refunding Bonds (O 1181-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1834
Fire Division
MSA breathing apparatus — repair, maintain, and service (O 1225-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
Grants
Air Quality, Division of — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (O 1224-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Applying and accepting federal and state grants — new Section 139.16 (O 1220-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692
Assistance to Firefighters Grant, 2003 — Federal Emergency Management Agency (O 1012-03) . . . . . 1758-1818
Clean Ohio Assessment Grant — Phase II environmental assessment — LTV Copperweld site
— 12610 Kirby Ave. — 12610 Kirby Avenue LLC (O 1244-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712-1844
Clean Ohio Assessment Grant — Phase II environmental assessment — White Motors facility
— E. 79th St. & St. Clair Ave. — East 79th Street Retail Associates, LLC (O 1241-03) . . . . . . . . . 1711-1843
Clean Ohio Revitalization Grant — demolition of the existing structure & remediation —
Cleveland Pneumatic — 3781 E. 77th St. — The General Investment Funds Real Estate
Holding Comp. (O 1243-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712-1844
Cuyahoga County Board of Health (O 1223-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Gang Resistance Education and Training Program, 2003 — U.S. Department of Justice,
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (O 1009-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1818
lean Ohio Assessment Grant — Phase II environmental assessment — National Screw
& Manufacturing Company — Quincy Business Park — Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corp. (O 1242-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712-1843
Treadway Creek Greenway Restoration Project — state funding — District One Public Works
Integrating Committee — Ohio Public Works Commission — tow path trail to Harmody
Park (O 1263-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1722-1853
Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging — Caregivers Program, 2003 — Western Reserve Area
Agency (O 1266-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1724-1855
Year 4 Youth Opportunity Program — U.S. Department of Labor (O 1234-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
Health Department
Air Quality, Division of — grant — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (O 1224-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Cleveland Cuyahoga County Healthy Homes Initiative Program 2003 — grant — Cuyahoga
County Board of Health (O 1223-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Justice Center
Garage and plaza — improvements — Contract No. 56954 — Panzica Construction Co.
(O 1258-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1720-1851
Land Reutilization Program
E. 117th St. — Ali Development Corporation (O 690-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1793
E. 36th St., 2065 & Prospect Ave., 3606 — Halle, Inc. (O 502-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1791
E. 46th St. — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 1268-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725-1856
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation — scattered sites (Ward 10) (O 1231-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
Green Rd. — Tony H. Smith, Sr. (O 1230-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Hough Ave. — Bruce A. Jones (O 931-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1817
Superior Ave. — Ohio Sauce Corporation (O 783-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1794
W. 45th St., 2087 — Patricia Zayas & Edwin Zayas (O 1229-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Landmark Commission
Ernst Schellentranger House — Cleveland Landmark — designate (O 1358-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
Memorial School — Cleveland landmark — designate (O 1354-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
Lease Agreement
East Cleveland, City of — park purposes (O 1265-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723-1855
Liquor Permits
Arcade Ave., 16101 — objection (Ward 11) (R 1337-03) . .
Ashbury Ave., 10509 — objection (Ward 9) (R 1308-03) . .
Bartlett Ave., 15315 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1340-03) . .
Benwood Ave., 14005 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1344-03) .
Broadview Rd., 3314 — objection (Ward 15) (R 1312-03).

1872

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1749-1785
1740-1776
1750-1786
1751-1787
1741-1778

July 23, 2003

The City Record

217

Broadview Rd., 4497 (1st floor & basement) — objection (Ward 15) (R 1320-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744-1780
Buckeye Rd., 11312 — objection (Ward 4) (R 1324-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745-1781
Buckeye Rd., 13009 — objection (Ward 4) (R 1323-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745-1781
Buckeye Rd., 13108 — objection (Ward 4) (R 1322-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744-1781
Cedar Ave., 8301 — objection (Ward 6) (R 1284-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733-1769
Cedar Ave., 8716 — objection (Ward 6) (R 1289-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1771
Central Ave., 7902-04 — objection (Ward 6) (R 1288-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1770
Denison Ave., 2101 (1st floor & basement) — objection (Ward 15) (R 1318-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743-1779
Denison Ave., 2317 (1st floor front & basement) — objection (Ward 15) (R 1317-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743-1779
Denison Ave., 3801-03 (1st floor & basement) — objection (Ward 15) (R 1314-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742-1778
Denison Ave., 6301 — objection — withdraw (Ward 16) (R 1332-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747-1784
Denison Ave., 6625 — objection (Ward 16) (R 1329-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746-1783
Denison Ave., 8202 — transfer (Ward 18) (F 1410-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
E. 105th St., 2249 — objection (Ward 6) (R 1286-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1770
E. 110th St., 2609 — new (Ward 6) (F 1400-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
E. 116th St., 3019 — objection (Ward 4) (R 1326-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746-1782
E. 116th St., 3580 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1346-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751-1788
E. 116th St., 3600 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1345-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751-1787
E. 116th St., 3790 — new (Ward 2) (F 1399-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
E. 123rd St., 3065-77 — objection (Ward 4) (R 1351-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1753-1789
E. 123rd St., 3916 — transfer (Ward 2) (F 1404-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
E. 131st St., 3695-97 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1348-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752-1788
E. 131st St., 4209 — objection — withdraw (Ward 1) (R 1374-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1754-1790
E. 140th St., 3918 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1347-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752-1788
E. 140th St., 625 — objection (Ward 10) (R 1306-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740-1776
E. 140th St., 662 — objection (Ward 10) (R 1300-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738-1774
E. 140th St., 831 — objection (Ward 10) (R 1299-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737-1774
E. 156th St., 397 — objection (Ward 11) (R 1334-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748-1784
Euclid Ave., 16420 (1st floor & basement) — objection (Ward 10) (R 1301-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738-1774
Euclid Ave., 16601 — objection (Ward 10) (R 1297-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737-1773
Euclid Ave., 16809-11-13 — objection (Ward 10) (R 1296-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737-1773
Euclid Ave., 17234 (1st floor & basement) — objection (Ward 10) (R 1303-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739-1775
Euclid Ave., 18029 — objection (Ward 10) (R 1305-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739-1775
Euclid Ave., 18310 — objection (Ward 10) (R 1298-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737-1773
Euclid Ave., 2121 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 1403-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Forest Ave., 12916 (1st floor & basement) — objection (Ward 4) (R 1373-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1753-1789
Forest Ave., 12916 — objection (Ward 4) (R 1327-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746-1782
Forest Ave., 12916 — transfer (Ward 4) (F 1417-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Frankfort Ave., 620 — objection (Ward 13) (R 1290-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1771
Fulton Rd., 3742 — objection (Ward 15) (R 1313-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742-1778
Holmes Ave., 15638 — objection (Ward 11) (R 1336-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748-1785
Huron Rd., 834-36 — transfer (Ward 13 (F 1411-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Imperial Ave., 12301-03 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1343-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751-1787
Kinsman Ave., 11902 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1339-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749-1786
Kinsman Ave., 13401 (1st floor) — objection (Ward 3) (R 1341-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1750-1786
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1349-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752-1788
Kinsman Rd., 13900 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1338-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749-1785
Kinsman Rd., 15310 — objection (Ward 3) (R 1342-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1750-1786
Lorain Ave., 16800 — objection (Ward 21) (R 1311-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741-1777
Lorain Ave., 4142-4146 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 1412-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Lorain Ave., 6410 — transfer (Ward 17) (F 1407-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Lorain Ave., 6520 (1st floor) — objection (Ward 17) (R 1350-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1753-1789
Madison Ave., 7602 — transfer (Ward 17) (F 1416-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Main Ave., 1148 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 1408-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Memphis Ave., 4818-22 (patio) — objection (Ward 15) (R 1315-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742-1778
Memphis Ave., 5200 — objection (Ward 15) (R 1316-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743-1779
Miles Ave., 11334 — transfer (Ward 2) (F 1409-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Mt. Auburn Rd., 9621 (1st floor & basement — objection (Ward 4) (R 1321-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744-1780
Munn Rd., 15520 — objection (Ward 21) (R 1310-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741-1777
Old River Rd., 1146 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 1414-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Pearl Rd., 4370 — transfer (Ward 16) (F 1405-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Quincy Ave., 9209 — objection (Ward 6) (R 1287-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1770
Ridge Rd., 3837 — objection (Ward 16) (R 1330-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747-1783
Rocky River Dr., 4075 — objection (Ward 21) (R 1309-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740-1777
Sophia Ave., 10202 (1st floor) — objection — withdraw (Ward 4) (R 1428-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1754-1790
St. Clair Ave., 13933 (1st floor) — objection (Ward 10) (R 1304-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739-1775
St. Clair Ave., 14045 — objection (Ward 10) (R 1295-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736-1772
St. Clair Ave., 17438 — objection (Ward 11) (R 1333-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748-1784
St. Clair Ave., 18414-16 — objection (Ward 11) (R 1335-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748-1784
St. Clair Ave., 3004 — objection (Ward 13) (R 1291-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1771
St. Clair Ave., 5238 — objection (Ward 13) (R 1293-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736-1772
St. Clair Ave., 6710 — objection (Ward 13) (R 1294-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736-1772
St. Clair Ave., 7513-15 — transfer (Ward 8) (F 1418-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
State Rd., 4301 — objection (Ward 15) (R 1319-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743-1780
Superior Ave., 11625 — objection (Ward 9) (R 1307-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740-1776
Sycamore St., 2000 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 1406-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Tate Ave., 2109 — objection (Ward 16) (R 1331-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747-1783
Van Aken Blvd., 2742 — objection (Ward 4) (R 1325-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745-1781
W. 25th St., 1616 — objection (Ward 13) (R 1292-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1772
W. 25th St., 1859 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 1413-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
W. 25th St., 2700 — agency contract (Ward 14) (F 1419-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
W. 25th St., 2700 — transfer (Ward 14) (F 1402-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
W. 9th St., 1278 — transfer (Ward 13) (F 1415-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660

1873

The City Record

218

July 23, 2003

Warner Rd., 4406-10 — transfer (Ward 12) (F 1401-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Woodhill Ave., 3029 — objection (Ward 4) (R 1328-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746-1782
Woodhill Rd., 2623 — objection (Ward 6) (R 1285-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733-1770
Woodworth Rd., 14625-27 — objection (Ward 10) (R 1302-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738-1775
Loans
Overlook Rd., 2188 — Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund — loan — Overlook
Ventures, LLC — economic development assistance (O 1251-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1715-1846
Metro Health Medical Center
Community Health’s “Around the World Health Fair” — banners (O 1365-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729-1860
Minority Business Enterprises
Certified MBEs and FBEs, Reporting Period: Second Quarter, 2003 — Office of Equal
Opportunity (F 1390-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Denials of Certification — Second Quarter, 2003 — Office of Equal Opportunity (F 1391-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Quarterly Deletions, Second Quarter, 2003 — Office of Equal Opportunity (F 1392-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Moral Claims
Moral claims — amend Ord. 986-03 (O 1255-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1718-1849
Neighborhood Equity Funds
Alternative Agency, Inc. — Hough Community Re-Entry Program — Ward 7 (O 1274-03) . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1857
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc. — New Home Construction Grant Program — Ward
5 (O 1272-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1857
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home loan Program — Ward 11, 16, 18, and 19
(O 1276-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1858
Famicos Foundation — Home Rehabilitation Program — Ward 4 (O 1273-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1857
Hough Service Provider Program — amend Ord. No. 395-03 — Ward 7 (O 1275-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1858
Neighborhood Progress, Inc — Neighborhood Dialogue Program — Ward 18 (O 1352-03) . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1859
Old Brooklyn Community Dev. Corp. — Neighborhood Trail Connector Project — Ward
15 (O 1271-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725-1857
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Association — Flower Power Program — Ward
13 (O 1270-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725-1857
Office of Equal Opportunity
Certified MBEs and FBEs, Reporting Period: Second Quarter, 2003 (F 1390-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Denials of Certification — Second Quarter, 2003 (F 1391-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Quarterly Deletions, Second Quarter, 2003 (F 1392-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Jennings Freeway — I-176 — purchase properties — expand homeowner’s yards (O 1240-03) . . . . . . . 1709-1841
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Air Quality, Division of — grant (O 1224-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation
Neighborhood Trail Connector Project — Ward 15 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1271-03) . . . . . . . . . 1725-1857
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Ball Diamond #1 at Michael J. Zone Recreation Center — Coach Smothers Field (O 1355-03) . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
Batavia Ave., 7515 — sell City-owned property — Gerald Artl (O 1227-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
Cedar Rd. & Murray Hill Rd. (northwest corner) — Declaratory Judgement voiding Deed
Restrictions (O 1228-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
City Hall Carpeting (Phase 5) Project — Contract No. 58676 — statement
of work acceptance (F 1423-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Cleveland Lakefront Bikeway Improvements Phase II — Contract No. 59537
— Subsidiary Agreement (F 1398-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Collinwood High School — summer recreational activities — agreement — Cleveland
Municipal School District (O 1269-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725-1856
Division of Recreation — Gymnasium Floor Refinishing Project — Contract No. 59917
— statement of work acceptance (F 1422-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
East Cleveland, City of — Lease Agreement — park purposes (O 1265-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723-1855
Henritze Park Site Improvements — Contract #59737 — statement of work acceptance (F 1420-03) . . . . . . . 1660
Plumbing and heating equipment and supplies — amend Ord. 1956-98 (O 1193-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1841
Recreation facilities — public improvement (O 1264-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723-1854
Treadway Creek Greenway Restoration Project — state funding — District One Public Works
Integrating Committee — grant — Ohio Public Works Commission — tow path trail to
Harmody Park (O 1263-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1722-1853
Ward 21 Parks Site Improvements — Contract #60554 — statement of work acceptance (F 1421-03) . . . . . . 1660

1874

July 23, 2003

The City Record

219

Peddlers
Clark, Michael and Rafus (Ward 1) (O 1277-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1858
Nzekwe, Malacy (Ward 4) (O 1362-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1728-1859
Permits
Dr. John Carey Memorial AIDS Walk, 13th Annual — Kropf Public Relations, Inc.
(O 1370-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1730-1861
Sky Bank Triathlon — Pacific Sports (O 1369-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1730-1861
Street and sidewalk obstruction permits and street opening permits — new Sec. 411.011
— amend Sects. 503.01, 503.99 and 507.06 — repeal Sec. 503.02 (O 1170-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1831
Personnel Department
Compensation — amend Sec. 43 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 1267-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1724-1855
Plats
32 Clinton, LLC — Subdivision Plat — (Ward 13) (F 1426-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Penn Court — Alley Dedication and Vacation Plat — (Ward 13) (F 1425-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Police Division
Mobile data computer pilot project — fourth district — amend Ord. No. 1105-02 (O 1260-03). . . . . . . . . 1721-1853
Port Control Department
Airport System Revenue Bonds — $215,000,000 — issuance and sale — airport system —
improve & acquire property (O 1156-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1821
Applying and accepting federal and state grants — new Section 139.16 (O 1220-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692
Asbestos abatement — public improvement (O 1219-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692
Design services, quality assurance, testing and inspection services — professional
consultants (O 1217-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1691
JCDecaux Airport, Inc. (f/k/a Sky Sites, Inc.) — Contract No. 57846 — amendment
— advertising concession (O 1216-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1691
Northwest Airlines, Inc. — Contract No. 31263 — Continental Airlines, Inc. — Contract
No. 38171 — amendments (O 1214-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1691
Oil/water separators, sewers, electrical vaults, holding tanks, lift stations — clean
and maintain (O 1218-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1692
Professional services to conduct audits of vendors, tenants and concessionaires — new
Section 139.17 (O 1221-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Runway 6L-24R — Contract No. 53666 — Michael Baker and Associates (O 1215-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1691
Purchases and Supplies Division
Alhambra Rd., 813 — purchase property — convey to Northeast Shore Development
Corp. (O 1357-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
Batavia Ave., 7515 — sell City-owned property — Gerald Artl (O 1227-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
Detroit Ave., 4408 — sell City-owned property — The HARP Restaurant — repeal Ord. No.
1161-01 (O 1212-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
Jennings Freeway — I-176 — purchase properties — expand homeowner’s yards (O 1240-03) . . . . . . . 1709-1841
Overlook Rd., 2188 — Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund — loan — Overlook
Ventures, LLC — economic development assistance (O 1251-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1715-1846
Park Lane, 10510 — purchase property — future redevelopment — Community Development
(O 1359-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
Structural and Roof Repairs — Lorain Avenue District Service Center — Dep. of Purchases
and Supplies (F 1376-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
Treadway Creek Greenway Restoration Project — state funding — District One Public Works
Integrating Committee — grant — Ohio Public Works Commission — tow path trail to
Harmody Park (O 1263-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1722-1853
W. St. Clair Ave., 205 — purchase — municipal use (O 1254-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1717-1849
Recognition
Barnes, Reverend Coleman & Barnes, Muriel (R
Davis, Wanda (R 1478-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dominion East Ohio (R 1481-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
El Barrio, Inc. (R 1477-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Feldman, Sari (R 1482-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
James, Troy Lee (R 1479-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1480-03)
........
........
........
........
........

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661
. 1661

Recreation Centers
Recreation facilities — public improvement (O 1264-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723-1854
Regional Transit Authority
University Circle/Heights Area Community Circulator — banners (O 1360-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1728-1859
Euclid Corridor Transportation Project — agreement — Public Service (O 893-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1756-1798

1875

The City Record

220

July 23, 2003

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Delinquent taxes, penalties or interest charged — against certain real property —
consenting to remission (R 1427-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Patrick Henry Track Field — change the name — Robert Eugene “Bump” Taylor Track Field
(R 1278-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SAFE-TEA Act of 2003 — support (R 1282-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Truck size and weight — opposing an increase on highways — supporting Senate Bill 1140
— The Safe Highways and Infrastructure Preservation Act (R 1283-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . 1754-1790
. . . . 1731-1767
. . . . 1732-1768
. . . . 1732-1769

Ridge Road Transfer Station
Scale pits — clean and maintain — Ridge Road Scale House and Ridge Road Transfer
Station — — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal (O 1167-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1759-1828
Rock ‘N Roll Hall of Fame Foundation
Liner Notes, Spring/Summer 2003 Issue — Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum —
(F 1396-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Safety Department
Aegis software — New World Systems — contracts (O 1226-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
AFIS software and hardware — Sagem Morpho, Inc. (O 1261-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1722-1853
Assistance to Firefighters Grant, 2003 — grant — Federal Emergency Management Agency
(O 1012-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1818
Gang Resistance Education and Training Program, 2003 — grant — U.S. Department of
Justice, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (O 1009-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1818
Mobile data computer pilot project — fourth district — amend Ord. No. 1105-02 (O 1260-03). . . . . . . . . 1721-1853
MSA breathing apparatus — repair, maintain, and service — Division of Fire (O 1225-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
Salaries
Compensation — amend Sec. 43 of Ord. No. 384-03 (O 1267-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1724-1855
Senate Bills
Truck size and weight — opposing an increase on highways — supporting Senate Bill 1140
— The Safe Highways and Infrastructure Preservation Act (R 1283-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732-1769
Service Department
African American Family Heritage Day Picnic — banner — amend Ord. No. 1037-03 (O 1368-03) . . . . . 1730-1861
Architecture Division — furniture, fixtures, and equipment — purchase (O 1168-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1759-1828
Assessment equalization board — report — Woodhaven Ave. — W. 98th St. — improvement
(O 1222-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Catalpa Rd. — Cleveland Rd. — improvement — assessment equalization board
— objections to estimated assessments (R 1279-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1731-1768
City Council Office Renovations — Subsidiary Agreement (F 1385-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
City Council Renovations Project — Contract No. 60510 — statement of work acceptance
(F 1424-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (RTA) — banners — University Circle/Heights Area
Community Circulator (O 1360-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1728-1859
Collinwood Community Center — public improvement (O 1259-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1721-1852
Community Health’s “Around the World Health Fair” — banners — MetroHealth Systems
(O 1365-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729-1860
Conn Court N.W. — vacate (Ward 13) (O 1210-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Equipment, furniture and computer software and hardware — various divisions (O 1257-03). . . . . . . . 1720-1851
Euclid Corridor Transportation Project — agreement — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority — Public Service (O 893-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1756-1798
Fernshaw Ave. & Riveredge Rd. (S.W.) — vacate (Ward 21) (O 1211-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
God’s House of Prayer and Deliverance — banners — special event (O 1372-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1731-1862
Justice Center garage and plaza — improvements — Contract No. 56954 —
Panzica Construction Co. (O 1258-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1720-1851
KidsHealth 2020 — banners — KidsHealth 2020 Summer Fair Series (O 1367-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729-1860
On-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment
— various divisions — appropriate ($500,000) — Enterprise Funds (O 1169-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1759-1828
Pilot program — repair sidewalks — amend Ord. No. 725-02 (O 1262-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1722-1853
Reserve Court N.E. — vacate (Ward 6) (O 1209-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Ridge Road Scale House and Ridge Road Transfer Station — scale pits — clean and
maintain — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal (O 1167-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1759-1828
St. Clair-Superior Neighborhood Development Association — banners — special event (O 1371-03). . . . . 1730-1861
St. Clair/Superior Neighborhood Development Association — banners — St. Clair Superior
Neighborhood Festival (O 1366-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729-1860
Structural and Roof Repairs — Lorain Avenue District Service Center — Dep. of Purchases
and Supplies (F 1376-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
Ward 1 Festival Committee — banners — Lee Harvard/Seville Community Festival (O 1363-03) . . . . 1728-1859
Woodhaven Ave. — W. 98th St. — W. 110th St. — improvement — assessment equalization
board — objections to estimated assessments (R 1280-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732-1768
Woodhill Court S.E. — intention to vacate (R 822-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1761-1767

1876

July 23, 2003

The City Record

221

Sewers
Archmere Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public improvement
(O 643-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 117th St. & St. Clair Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public
improvement (O 642-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 71st St. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public
improvement (O 645-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public improvement
(O 644-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
. . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
. . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
. . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792

Sidewalks
Pilot program — repair sidewalks — amend Ord. No. 725-02 (O 1262-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1722-1853
Street and sidewalk obstruction permits and street opening permits — new Sec. 411.011
— amend Sects. 503.01, 503.99 and 507.06 — repeal Sec. 503.02 (O 1170-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1831
State Funds
Treadway Creek Greenway Restoration Project — state funding — District One Public Works
Integrating Committee — grant — Ohio Public Works Commission — tow path trail to
Harmody Park (O 1263-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1722-1853
Statement of Work Acceptance
City Council Renovations Project — Contract No. 60510 (F 1424-03) . . . . . . . . .
City Hall Carpeting (Phase 5) Project — Contract No. 58676 (F 1423-03) . . . .
Division of Recreation — Gymnasium Floor Refinishing Project — Contract
(F 1422-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Henritze Park Site Improvements — Contract #59737 (F 1420-03) . . . . . . . . . . .
Ward 21 Parks Site Improvements — Contract #60554 (F 1421-03). . . . . . . . . . .

.........
.........
No. 59917
.........
.........
.........

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660

Street Openings
Street and sidewalk obstruction permits and street opening permits — new Sec. 411.011
— amend Sects. 503.01, 503.99 and 507.06 — repeal Sec. 503.02 (O 1170-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1831
Street Vacation
Conn Court N.W. (Ward 13) (O 1210-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Fernshaw Ave. & Riveredge Rd. (S.W.) (Ward 21) (O 1211-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
Reserve Court N.E. (Ward 6) (O 1209-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Woodhill Court S.E. — intention to vacate (R 822-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1761-1767
Streets
Street and sidewalk obstruction permits and street opening permits — new Sec. 411.011
— amend Sects. 503.01, 503.99 and 507.06 — repeal Sec. 503.02 (O 1170-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1831
Tax Abatements
Overlook Rd., 2188 — tax abatement — Enterprise Zone Agreements — Nottingham Spirk Design
Associates, Inc. — Overlook Ventures, LLC (O 1246-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713-1845
Taxes
Delinquent taxes, penalties or interest charged — against certain real property —
consenting to remission (R 1427-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1754-1790
Utilities Department
Archmere Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public improvement
(O 643-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
Detroit Ave., 4408 — sell City-owned property — The HARP Restaurant — repeal Ord. No.
1161-01 (O 1212-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
E. 117th St. & St. Clair Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public
improvement (O 642-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
E. 71st St. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public
improvement (O 645-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
East 68th & East 69th Street Sewer Project — Subsidiary Agreements — Dep. of
Public Utilities (F 1377-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1659
Editing systems and training — Office of Cable TV (O 1213-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1691
Fencing at various facilities — repair or install — Division of Water Pollution Control
(O 1150-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1820
Outdoor residential lighting and energy efficient programs — Cleveland Public Power
(O 1154-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1820
Snow removal services — various locations — Cleveland Public Power (O 1152-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1820
Substation equipment — batteries, switchgear, transformers and circuit breakers —
maintain, repair, and replace (O 999-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1818

1877

The City Record

222

July 23, 2003

Superior Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public improvement
(O 644-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transmission services — Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. —
Cleveland Public Power (O 1256-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water Pollution Control building — feasibility study, design and make of the improvement
— contracts (O 597-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water, sewer and gas lines damaged — by pole replacement — Cleveland Public Power
(O 1151-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . 1755-1792
. . . . . . . 1720-1851
. . . . . . . 1755-1791
. . . . . . . 1758-1820

Ward 01
Chambers Family Reunion — congratulation (R 1460-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Clark, Michael and Rafus — Peddle (Ward 1) (O 1277-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1858
Cook, Charles — condolence (R 1448-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
E. 131st St., 4209 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 1374-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1754-1790
Evans, Mrs. Ollie Mae — congratulation (R 1454-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Gebauer Company — Enterprise Zone Agreement — amend Ord. No. 378-03 (O 1250-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . 1714-1846
Harris, Joyce Ann — condolence (R 1441-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Johnson, Dorothy Mae — condolence (R 1442-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Jones, Andrew W., Sr. — condolence (R 1447-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Minter/Coker Family Reunion — congratulation (R 1461-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Moore, Rev. Dr. R. Josef II — congratulation (R 1459-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Ward 1 Festival Committee — banners — Lee Harvard/Seville Community Festival (O 1363-03). . . . . . 1728-1859
Ward 02
E. 116th St., 3790 — new — liquor permit (F 1399-03) . . . .
E. 123rd St., 3916 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1404-03)
Miles Ave., 11334 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1409-03).
Woolridge, Dorothy V. — condolence (R 1444-03) . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1660
1660
1660
1661

Ward 03
African American Family Heritage Day Picnic — banner — amend Ord. No. 1037-03 (O 1368-03) . . . . . 1730-1861
Bartlett Ave., 15315 — objection — liquor permit (R 1340-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1750-1786
Benwood Ave., 14005 — objection — liquor permit (R 1344-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751-1787
Cash Moore, Olivia — condolence (R 1439-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
E. 116th St., 3580 — objection — liquor permit (R 1346-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751-1788
E. 116th St., 3600 — objection — liquor permit (Ward 3) (R 1345-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751-1787
E. 131st St., 3695-97 — objection — liquor permit (R 1348-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752-1788
E. 140th St., 3918 — objection — liquor permit (R 1347-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752-1788
Feldman, Sari — recognition (R 1482-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Imperial Ave., 12301-03 — objection — liquor permit (R 1343-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1751-1787
KidsHealth 2020 — banners — KidsHealth 2020 Summer Fair Series (O 1367-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729-1860
Kinsman Ave., 11902 — objection — liquor permit (R 1339-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749-1786
Kinsman Ave., 13401 (1st floor) — objection — liquor permit (R 1341-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1750-1786
Kinsman Ave., 14510 — objection — liquor permit (R 1349-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1752-1788
Kinsman Rd., 13900 — objection — liquor permit (R 1338-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749-1785
Kinsman Rd., 15310 — objection — liquor permit (R 1342-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1750-1786
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center — congratulation (R 1471-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Ward 04
Buckeye Rd., 11312 — objection — liquor permit (R 1324-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745-1781
Buckeye Rd., 13009 — objection — liquor permit (R 1323-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745-1781
Buckeye Rd., 13108 — objection — liquor permit (R 1322-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744-1781
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (RTA) — banners — University Circle/Heights Area
Community Circulator (O 1360-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1728-1859
E. 116th St., 3019 — objection — liquor permit (R 1326-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746-1782
E. 123rd St., 3065-77 — objection — liquor permit (R 1351-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1753-1789
Famicos Foundation — Home Rehabilitation Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1273-03) . . . . 1726-1857
Fluellen, Fred Henry — condolence (R 1437-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Forest Ave., 12916 (1st floor & basement) — objection — liquor permit (R 1373-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1753-1789
Forest Ave., 12916 — objection — liquor permit (R 1327-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746-1782
Forest Ave., 12916 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1417-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
God’s House of Prayer and Deliverance — banners — special event (O 1372-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1731-1862
Harris, William A. “Sonny” — condolence (R 1446-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Mt. Auburn Rd., 9621 (1st floor & basement — objection — liquor permit (R 1321-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744-1780
Nzekwe, Malacy — peddling (O 1362-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1728-1859
Sophia Ave., 10202 (1st floor) — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 1428-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1754-1790
Van Aken Blvd., 2742 — objection — liquor permit (R 1325-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745-1781
Woodhill Ave., 3029 — objection — liquor permit (R 1328-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746-1782
Woodhill Court S.E. — intention to vacate (R 822-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1761-1767
Ward 05
“Rebuilding Day 2003” — congratulation (R 1470-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Bibb, Officer Frank Lee, Jr. — congratulation (R 1458-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc. — New Home Construction Grant Program —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1272-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1857
Celebrezze, Anthony J., Jr. — condolence (R 1429-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660

1878

July 23, 2003

The City Record

223

Coats, Roosevelt — congratulation (R 1476-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Crow, Dr. Jack E. — congratulation (R 1465-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Dominion East Ohio — recognition (R 1481-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
E. 36th St., 2065 & Prospect Ave., 3606 — Land Reutilization Program — Halle, Inc.
(O 502-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1791
E. 46th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.
(O 1268-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725-1856
E. 71st St. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public
improvement (O 645-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
Hall, Kenwood — congratulation (R 1464-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Hamilton, Lena — condolence (R 1430-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Hemann, Judge Patricia A. — congratulation (R 1463-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Jackson, Maynard H., Jr. — condolence (R 1431-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
James, Troy Lee — recognition (R 1479-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
lean Ohio Assessment Grant — Phase II environmental assessment — National Screw
& Manufacturing Company — Quincy Business Park — Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corp. (O 1242-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712-1843
McCall, Valarie J. — congratulation (R 1466-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Minter, Steve A. — congratulation (R 1475-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Watson, Dennis Rahimm — welcome (R 1483-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
White, Robert R., Jr. — condolence (R 1443-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Wolstein, Bert — congratulation (R 1467-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Woodland Cemetery — congratulation (R 1474-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Ward 06
34th Anniversary of LGBT Month — congratulation (R 1473-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Cedar Ave., 8301 — objection — liquor permit (R 1284-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733-1769
Cedar Ave., 8716 — objection — liquor permit (R 1289-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1771
Cedar Rd. & Murray Hill Rd. (northwest corner) — Declaratory Judgement voiding Deed
Restrictions (O 1228-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Central Ave., 7902-04 — objection — liquor permit (R 1288-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1770
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (RTA) — banners — University Circle/Heights Area
Community Circulator (O 1360-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1728-1859
Community Health’s “Around the World Health Fair” — banners — MetroHealth Systems
(O 1365-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729-1860
E. 105th St., 2249 — objection — liquor permit (R 1286-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1770
E. 110th St., 2609 — new — liquor permit (F 1400-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Harris, Rev. Paige A. — congratulation (R 1462-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Overlook Rd., 2188 — Cuyahoga County Brownfield Redevelopment Fund — loan — Overlook
Ventures, LLC — economic development assistance (O 1251-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1715-1846
Overlook Rd., 2188 — tax abatement — Enterprise Zone Agreements — Nottingham Spirk Design
Associates, Inc. — Overlook Ventures, LLC (O 1246-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713-1845
Overlook Ventures, LLC — contract — historic renovation — First Church of Christ
Scientist building — 2188 Overlook Rd. (O 1245-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713-1844
Park Lane, 10510 — purchase property — future redevelopment — Community Development
(O 1359-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
Quincy Ave., 9209 — objection — liquor permit (R 1287-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1770
Reserve Court N.E. — vacate (O 1209-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Williams, Barbara June — condolence (R 1449-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Woodhill Rd., 2623 — objection — liquor permit (R 1285-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733-1770
Ward 07
Alternative Agency, Inc. — Hough Community Re-Entry Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1274-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1857
Barnes, Reverend Coleman & Barnes, Muriel — recognition (R 1480-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Boulton, Amanda — condolence (R 1445-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
E. 71st St. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public
improvement (O 645-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
Herbert Bradley, Henry — condolence (R 1433-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Hough Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Bruce A. Jones (O 931-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1817
Hough Service Provider Program — amend Ord. No. 395-03 — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1275-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726-1858
Housing, commercial, industrial and real estate development activities — various
agencies — Community Development — amend Ord. No. 976-03 (O 1364-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729-1860
Richmond Brothers building — E. 55th St. — economic development assistance — Cleveland
Housing Network (O 1248-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1714-1846
Rivers Boone, Amelia — condolence (R 1432-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
St. Clair-Superior Neighborhood Development Association — banners — special event (O 1371-03). . . . . 1730-1861
Superior Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public improvement
(O 644-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
Ward 08
Clean Ohio Assessment Grant — Phase II environmental assessment — White Motors facility
— E. 79th St. & St. Clair Ave. — East 79th Street Retail Associates, LLC
(O 1241-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1711-1843
Davis, Wanda — recognition (R 1478-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
E. 117th St. & St. Clair Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public
improvement (O 642-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792

1879

The City Record

224

Ernst Schellentranger House — Cleveland Landmark — designate (O 1358-03) . . . . . .
Johnson, Evelyn Mae — condolence (R 1438-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kirby, Roosevelt — congratulation (R 1457-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 7513-15 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1418-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public improvement
White, Robert R., Jr. — condolence (R 1443-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

July 23, 2003
...
...
...
...
(O
...

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
644-03) . . . . . 1755-1792
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661

Ward 09
Ashbury Ave., 10509 — objection — liquor permit (R 1308-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740-1776
E. 117th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Ali Development Corporation (O 690-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1793
Randall Mitchell, Sarah Ozelma — condolence (R 1434-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
St. Clair Ave. (south) — between E. 115th & E. 117th Sts. — change the zoning —
General Retail Business District (O 1022-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1819
Superior Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Ohio Sauce Corporation (O 783-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1794
Superior Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public improvement (O 644-03) . . . . . 1755-1792
Superior Ave., 11625 — objection — liquor permit (R 1307-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740-1776
Ward 10
Catalpa Rd. — Cleveland Rd. — improvement — assessment equalization board
— objections to estimated assessments (R 1279-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1731-1768
Clean Ohio Assessment Grant — Phase II environmental assessment — LTV Copperweld site
— 12610 Kirby Ave. — 12610 Kirby Avenue LLC (O 1244-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712-1844
Collinwood Community Center — public improvement — Public Service (O 1259-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1721-1852
E. 140th St., 625 — objection — liquor permit (R 1306-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740-1776
E. 140th St., 662 — objection — liquor permit (R 1300-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738-1774
E. 140th St., 831 — objection — liquor permit (R 1299-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737-1774
Euclid Ave., 16420 (1st floor & basement) — objection — liquor permit (R 1301-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738-1774
Euclid Ave., 16601 — objection — liquor permit (R 1297-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737-1773
Euclid Ave., 16809-11-13 — objection — liquor permit (R 1296-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737-1773
Euclid Ave., 17234 (1st floor & basement) — objection — liquor permit (R 1303-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739-1775
Euclid Ave., 18029 — objection — liquor permit (R 1305-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739-1775
Euclid Ave., 18310 — objection — liquor permit (R 1298-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737-1773
Euclid St. Clair Development Corporation — Land Reutilization Program — scattered sites
(Ward 10) (O 1231-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1696
Gray, Myrthul — condolence (R 1436-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Green Rd. — Land Reutilization Program — Tony H. Smith, Sr. (O 1230-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Memorial School — Cleveland landmark — designate (O 1354-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
Spates, Frager — condolence (R 1435-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
St. Clair Ave., 13933 (1st floor) — objection — liquor permit (R 1304-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739-1775
St. Clair Ave., 14045 — objection — liquor permit (R 1295-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736-1772
Woodworth Rd., 14625-27 — objection — liquor permit (R 1302-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738-1775
Ward 11
Alhambra Rd., 813 — purchase property — convey to Northeast Shore Development Corp. (O 1357-03). . . . . 1706
Arcade Ave., 16101 — objection — liquor permit (R 1337-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1749-1785
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home loan Program — Ward 11, 16, 18, and 19
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1276-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1858
Delinquent taxes, penalties or interest charged — against certain real property —
consenting to remission (R 1427-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1754-1790
E. 156th St., 397 — objection — liquor permit (R 1334-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748-1784
E. 185th St. (3 properties) — Release of Deed Restrictions — authorizing the Mayor (O 652-03) . . . . . 1755-1793
East 156th Street/Waterloo Business Revitalization District — expand (O 1238-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
Frollo, Joe — condolence (R 1453-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Holmes Ave., 15638 — objection — liquor permit (R 1336-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748-1785
Lakeshore Blvd. (south) — between E. 171 St. & E. 174 St. — change the zoning —
One-Family Residential Use District and to an “A” Area District (O 820-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1797
Shawnee Ave. (south), near Neff Rd & E. 185 St. — change the zoning — Local Retail Use
District (O 818-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1794
St. Clair Ave. (south) — between E. 165 St. & E. 166 St. — change the zoning —
Semi-Industry Use District (O 819-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1796
St. Clair Ave., 17438 — objection — liquor permit (R 1333-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748-1784
St. Clair Ave., 18414-16 — objection — liquor permit (R 1335-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1748-1784
Ward 12
Batavia Ave., 7515 — sell City-owned property — Gerald Artl (O 1227-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1694
Clean Ohio Revitalization Grant — demolition of the existing structure & remediation —
Cleveland Pneumatic — 3781 E. 77th St. — The General Investment Funds Real Estate
Holding Comp. (O 1243-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1712-1844
E. 71st St. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public
improvement (O 645-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
Old World Foods, Inc. — economic development assistance — relocation — 1545 E. 76th St.
(O 1247-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1713-1845
Warner Rd., 4406-10 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1401-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Ward 13
32 Clinton, LLC — Subdivision Plat (F 1426-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
34th Anniversary of LGBT Month — congratulation (R 1473-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Conn Court N.W. — vacate (O 1210-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689

1880

July 23, 2003

The City Record

225

Detroit Ave., 4408 — sell City-owned property — The HARP Restaurant — repeal Ord. No.
1161-01 (O 1212-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
Dominion East Ohio — recognition (R 1481-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
E. 61st St. & St. Clair Ave. (northwest corner) — change — Two-Family Residential
District and a “B” Area District (O 1353-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
El Barrio, Inc. — recognition (R 1477-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Euclid Ave., 2121 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1403-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Frankfort Ave., 620 — objection — liquor permit (R 1290-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1771
Huron Rd., 834-36 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1411-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Lorain Ave., 4142-4146 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1412-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Main Ave., 1148 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1408-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Old River Rd., 1146 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1414-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Penn Court — Alley Dedication and Vacation Plat (F 1425-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Sky Bank Triathlon — permit — Pacific Sports (O 1369-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1730-1861
St. Clair Ave., 3004 — objection — liquor permit (R 1291-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1771
St. Clair Ave., 5238 — objection — liquor permit (R 1293-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736-1772
St. Clair Ave., 6710 — objection — liquor permit (R 1294-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736-1772
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Development Association — Flower Power Program —
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1270-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725-1857
St. Clair-Superior Neighborhood Development Association — banners — special event (O 1371-03). . . . . 1730-1861
St. Clair/Superior Neighborhood Development Association — banners — St. Clair Superior
Neighborhood Festival (O 1366-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729-1860
Superior Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public improvement (O 644-03). . . . 1755-1792
Sycamore St., 2000 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1406-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
W. 25th St., 1616 — objection — liquor permit (R 1292-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734-1772
W. 9th St., 1278 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1415-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
W. St. Clair Ave., 205 — purchase — municipal use (O 1254-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1717-1849
Ward 14
Clark Metro Business Revitalization District — establish (O 1237-03).
El Barrio, Inc. — recognition (R 1477-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Giovannetti, Jose Antonio — congratulation (R 1455-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sepulveda Lopez, Santos — congratulation (R 1456-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 25th St., 1859 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1413-03) . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 25th St., 2700 — agency contract — liquor permit (F 1419-03) . . . .
W. 25th St., 2700 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1402-03) . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 45th St., 2087 — Land Reutilization Program — Patricia Zayas &

.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
Edwin

..................
..................
..................
..................
..................
..................
..................
Zayas (O 1229-03) .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1707
1661
1661
1661
1660
1660
1660
1695

Ward 15
34th Anniversary of LGBT Month — congratulation (R 1473-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Broadview Rd., 3314 — objection — liquor permit (R 1312-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741-1778
Broadview Rd., 4497 (1st floor & basement) — objection — liquor permit (R 1320-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744-1780
Denison Ave., 2101 (1st floor & basement) — objection — liquor permit (R 1318-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743-1779
Denison Ave., 2317 (1st floor front & basement) — objection — liquor permit (R 1317-03). . . . . . . . . . 1743-1779
Denison Ave., 3801-03 (1st floor & basement) — objection — liquor permit (R 1314-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742-1778
Fulton Rd., 3742 — objection — liquor permit (R 1313-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742-1778
Jennings Freeway — I-176 — purchase properties — expand homeowner’s yards (O 1240-03) . . . . . . . 1709-1841
Memphis Ave., 4818-22 (patio) — objection — liquor permit (R 1315-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742-1778
Memphis Ave., 5200 — objection — liquor permit (R 1316-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743-1779
Old Brooklyn Community Dev. Corp. — Neighborhood Trail Connector Project — Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1271-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725-1857
State Rd., 4301 — objection — liquor permit (R 1319-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743-1780
Ward 16
Archmere Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public improvement
(O 643-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
Assessment equalization board — report — Woodhaven Ave. — W. 98th St. — improvement
(O 1222-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home loan Program — Ward 11, 16, 18, and 19
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1276-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1858
Denison Ave., 6301 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 1332-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747-1784
Denison Ave., 6625 — objection — liquor permit (R 1329-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1746-1783
Memphis Ave., 4103 — intention to appropriate — recreational play field — repeal Res.
No. 573-01 (R 1239-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
Pearl Rd., 4370 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1405-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Ridge Rd., 3837 — objection — liquor permit (R 1330-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747-1783
Tate Ave., 2109 — objection — liquor permit (R 1331-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1747-1783
Woodhaven Ave. — W. 98th St. — W. 110th St. — improvement — assessment equalization
board — objections to estimated assessments (R 1280-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732-1768
Ward 17
34th Anniversary of LGBT Month — congratulation (R 1473-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Ball Diamond #1 at Michael J. Zone Recreation Center — Coach Smothers Field (O 1355-03) . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
DiBello, Joseph — condolence (R 1451-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Dr. John Carey Memorial AIDS Walk, 13th Annual — permit — Kropf Public Relations, Inc.
(O 1370-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1730-1861
El Barrio, Inc. — recognition (R 1477-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Lorain Ave., 6410 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1407-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Lorain Ave., 6520 (1st floor) — objection — liquor permit (R 1350-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1753-1789
Madison Ave., 7602 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1416-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660

1881

The City Record

226

July 23, 2003

Payne, Christina — condolence (R 1452-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Simmons, Earl and Mary Louise — congratulation (R 1469-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Sky Bank Triathlon — permit — Pacific Sports (O 1369-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1730-1861
Smothers, Larry “Coach” — condolence (R 1450-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Ward 18
34th Anniversary of LGBT Month — congratulation (R 1473-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Assessment equalization board — report — Woodhaven Ave. — W. 98th St. — improvement
(O 1222-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1693
Ball Diamond #1 at Michael J. Zone Recreation Center — Coach Smothers Field (O 1355-03) . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
Celebrezze, Anthony J., Jr. — condolence (R 1429-03). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home loan Program — Ward 11, 16, 18, and 19
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1276-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1858
Denison Ave., 8202 — transfer — liquor permit (F 1410-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1660
Dr. John Carey Memorial AIDS Walk, 13th Annual — permit — Kropf Public Relations, Inc.
(O 1370-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1730-1861
Neighborhood Progress, Inc — Neighborhood Dialogue Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1352-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1859
Sky Bank Triathlon — permit — Pacific Sports (O 1369-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1730-1861
Smothers, Larry “Coach” — condolence (R 1450-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Woodhaven Ave. — W. 98th St. — W. 110th St. — improvement — assessment equalization
board — objections to estimated assessments (R 1280-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732-1768
Ward 19
Cleveland Restoration Society — Heritage Home loan Program — Ward 11, 16, 18, and 19
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1276-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1727-1858
Ward 20
Ancell, Brother Peter (Timothy) — congratulation (R 1472-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave., 19609 — new retail facility — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Parkview Town
Center LLC (O 1232-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ritter, Harry and Kathryn — congratulation (R 1468-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Skill Tool & Die Corporation — Enterprise Zone Agreement No. 48586 (O 1233-03) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1661
. . . . . . . . . . . 1703
. . . . . . . . . . . 1661
. . . . . . . . . . . 1703

Ward 21
Fernshaw Ave. & Riveredge Rd. (S.W.) — vacate (O 1211-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
Lorain Ave., 16800 — objection — liquor permit (R 1311-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741-1777
Munn Rd., 15520 — objection — liquor permit (R 1310-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741-1777
Rocky River Dr., 4075 — objection — liquor permit (R 1309-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740-1777
Sapatka, Gerald — condolence (R 1440-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Ward 21 Parks Site Improvements — Contract #60554 — statement of work acceptance (F 1421-03) . . . . . . 1660
Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Ridge Road Scale House and Ridge Road Transfer Station — scale pits — clean and
maintain (O 1167-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1759-1828
Water Pollution Control Division
Archmere Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public improvement (O 643-03) . . . . 1755-1792
Contracts for the Division of Water Pollution Control — new Sects. 129.29, 129.291, and
129.292 (O 996-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1817
E. 117th St. & St. Clair Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public
improvement (O 642-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
E. 71st St. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public
improvement (O 645-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1792
Fencing at various facilities — repair or install (O 1150-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1758-1820
Superior Ave. area sewer system — manholes and catch basins — public improvement (O 644-03). . . . 1755-1792
Water Pollution Control building — feasibility study, design and make of the improvement
— contracts (O 597-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1755-1791
Welcome
Watson, Dennis Rahimm (R 1483-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1661
Zoning
East 156th Street/Waterloo Business Revitalization District — expand (O 1238-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
Lakeshore Blvd. (south) — between E. 171 St. & E. 174 St. — change the zoning —
One-Family Residential Use District and to an “A” Area District (O 820-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1797
Shawnee Ave. (south), near Neff Rd & E. 185 St. — change the zoning — Local Retail Use
District (O 818-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1794
St. Clair Ave. (south) — between E. 115th & E. 117th Sts. — change the zoning —
General Retail Business District (O 1022-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1819
St. Clair Ave. (south) — between E. 165 St. & E. 166 St. — change the zoning —
Semi-Industry Use District (O 819-03) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1760-1796

1882

